	
During the past weeks Europe and America witnessed the arrangement of important international conferences, which could on the one hand guarantee the peace and stability of the world, or could instead deteriorate the conditions. The conference in New York, which dealt with a ban on demand for light arms, and the Genoa Conference which had a much wider and extended agenda, had two common features between them. The first was that large and numerous bodies of dissidents were opposing the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group. The second feature was that both conferences ended without effective result, and the decisions taken and resolutions adopted there lacked conclusiveness and were not operational. The Bonn Conference however, which dealt with the global environment and examined the condition of world climate, could be appraised as an exception and a relative success. 
	
	
 After two weeks of discussion and exchange of views at the New York Conference, it was decided to pay heed to the resolute demands advanced by the majority of the participants, who emphatically insisted on the imposition of a ban on the sale of light weaponry. But paying heed was not tantamount to endorsement of the demand launched by those countries; rather, the final result came out as a compromise solution and a relative back up by the majority group. 
	
	
 The joint demand and stand by the majority of countries attending the conference was encountered by firm opposition by the United States [of America]. American delegates at the conference maintained that any restriction or ban on the sale, possession, and carrying of light armaments was practically the same as limiting the freedom of action [as published] of American citizens, and equal to reducing their margin of security. This is while possessing arms for self-defense is itself a factor that breeds insecurity. Critics of the meeting, on the margin of the conference, up held the view that the American government, instead of heeding the wishes of international community, and protecting the security of world nations, and above all the safety of its own citizens, has paid more attention to the interests of corporations and huge arms producers and military-industrial complexes that reap tremendous profits annually from the sale of such armaments. (It should be noted that the issues moved at the conference were declared unofficial and lacking validity [legal force] even for the participating countries.) [Sentences are as published] The most important of the three conferences, which subsequently gained even more prominence, was the conference in Genova; perhaps even more so for the results "not obtained" at the conference, and which led to the subsequent intense dissatisfaction and frustration of the leading industrial states attending the meeting. The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty. The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty. When Italian police intervened and roughly handled the demonstrations, things got out of hand; the already volatile situation reached boiling point, violent clashes broke out, and the killing of one protestor overshadowed all other issues. The whole incident was in fact unprecedented in the history of European democracies, and has prompted a whole range of controversies and debates. 
	
	
 It can safely be claimed that the events in Genoa have influenced [overshadowed] the very conferences in New York and Bonn; whereas, from the onset, the weak results of Genoa was foreseeable for most observers. Because, from the very start it could be predicted that on the subject of economic globalization, the developed and capitalist states were going to come across fierce opposition by dissident groups and the supporters of economic growth in poor countries. 
	
	
 Regarding the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System too, neither Russia, China, Japan, nor even the European Union, had shown any enthusiasm; rather they had all expressed their reserves on the project. Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol. Whereas, beforehand, it was anticipated and hoped that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well. Even the eagerness for playing an intermediary role in the Middle East crisis has given rise to fierce competition between America, European Union, and Russia and China. And it is likely that until each party seeks its own particular interest in the conflict, and until the rivalry persists, the question would continue to remain unresolved. 
	
	
 What, however, was most remarkable in the conferences in New York and Genoa, was the fact that most decisions made, were based on interests and tastes of particular groups [lobbies]. Here are the views expressed by two of the prominent characters attending the Genoa Conference. Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..." Similarly, Gerhard Schroeder, the German Chancellor, too had claimed that the participants at the summit meeting were the true, legitimate, and elected representatives of the people of their countries. In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide! [Exclamation mark as published] In view of the criticisms, which have been made, they could perhaps be also considered to be the representative of powerful corporations that have placed the whole "world economy" under their influence, and as a result of that they are also controlling the world of politics globally. 
	
	
 At the Bonn Conference too, the agenda was to tackle and discuss the most urgent and indispensable factors concerning the life of humankind. The remarkable feature of this conference was the joint resolution adopted by 180 countries worldwide --- in regard to protection of environment, and above all reducing the emission of greenhouse gases ---, which has isolated America in an undeniable way. It was due to this isolation that America, in spite of discrediting [undermining] the Kyoto Protocol and declining to comply with the Bonn Conference [resolution], was forced to at least make a promise to cooperate in preventing an increase in air pollution. 
	
	
 To recap, if there ever existed any possibility that at the conferences of New York and Genoa questions regarding: promotion of world security, improvement of economic conditions, defusing regional and global crises and conflicts, checking unleashed competition for rearmament, reduction of the gap between the mainstream and peripheral countries, and ... could be addressed and appropriate, serious, and worthy measures for their solution could be adopted, the opportunity was very easily lost and the meetings flopped completely. As regards the recent conference (Bonn Meeting), although the past gatherings like the Hague meeting and Kyoto conference have proved to be failed experiences, nevertheless as the climatic and atmospheric crises are growing more serious, one can be optimistic and hopeful about the success of such protocols and pacts, and implementation of the agreements, even though they are not protected by any sanctions. 
	
	
 ENDALL ARZK 
	
	
	


	
KINSHASA, July 14 (AFP) - Some 60 representatives of civil society, parties, rebel groups and government in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) are to take part in preparatory talks on reviving political dialogue in the vast country next month, an official said Saturday. 
	
	
 A representative of the facilitator of the talks, Hacen Ould Lebatt, told a media conference here that 38 civil society delegates, representing seven of the DRC's 11 provinces, had already been designated. 
	
	
 The round of consultations ahead of the start of formal negotiations between the various parties -- dubbed the "inter-Congolese dialogue" -- will begin August 20 in the Botswana capital Gaborone, the facilitator of the talks, former Botswana president Ketumile Masire, announced this week. 
	
	
 Masire's team, which has criss-crossed the former Zaire to prepare for the talks, is currently pursuing its mission in the provinces of Bandundu, Bas-Congo, Equateur, and in the capital Kinshasa, Lebatt said. 
	
	
 Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise. 
	
	
 The national dialogue is a feature of peace accords signed in 1999 by all warring parties in the former Zaire -- two rebel groups, their backers Rwanda and Uganda, and the Kinshasa government and its allies, Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia. 
	
	
 Masire was brought back into the DRC peace process in February this year as facilitator for the inter-Congolese dialogue by President Joseph Kabila. 
	
	
 The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels. 
	
	
 Lebatt told the media conference that deep divergences remained concerning the designation of delegates to represent DRC political parties, and those to represent the parties who signed the Lusaka agreement. 
	
	
 "The political players must overcome their divisions by finding a formula for consensus," said Lebatt, who is former foreign and cooperation minister of Mauritania. 
	
	
 The Lusaka accord merely speaks about "political opposition", he said. "One must ask 'opposition to whom and what?'." 
	
	
 Lebatt said the facilitation team expected to draw up a final list of participants by August 6. 
	
	
 The conflict in the former Zaire broke out when rebels backed by Laurent Kabila's erstwhile allies Rwanda and Uganda launched an insurgency in August 1998. 
	
	
	


	
Russian guards seize 87 kg of heroin on Tajik-Afghan border 
	
	
 Text of report in English by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS 
	
	
 Dushanbe, 21 July: A patrol of Russia's border guards discovered two sacks filled with narcotics on the Moskva border detachment's section of the Tajik-Afghan border on Friday [20 July]. An expert examination showed that the sacks contained 86.9 kilos of pure heroin, head of the press service of Russia's Border Troops in Tajikistan Colonel Aleksandr Kondratyev told ITAR-TASS on Saturday. Drug dealers have lost some 3,600 kilos of narcotics including more than a tonne of heroin on the Tajik-Afghan border since the beginning of the year, the colonel said. During the year 2000 border guards confiscated 2,950 kilos of drugs, including 670 kilos of heroin, Kondratyev noted. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Paris, July 11 (CNA) -- Taiwan's economy will become totally dependent on mainland China within the next few years, causing the island to lose control of its own political fate, a French weekly warned Thursday. 
	
	
 The Nouvel Observateur said that Beijing is unlikely to annex Taiwan by force, despite its deployment of missiles along its coastal provinces opposite Taiwan, but is instead resorting to smarter tactics, bringing the Taiwan authorities to heel through Taiwan businessmen who are eager to explore the mainland Chinese market. 
	
	
 The weekly said that mainland China has attracted more than US$50 billion in investment from Taiwan thus far, while the Taipei authorities bowed to pressure from its own businessmen to lift restrictions on investment in mainland China in May, a move expected to speed up the flow of Taiwan capital to its arch rival. 
	
	
 Barring any reversal to the trend, the weekly quoted U.S. magazine Business Weekly as saying that Beijing might bring the island to its knees without firing one bullet. 
	
	
 Another factor which might deter Beijing's military adventurism in the Taiwan Strait is Washington's "readiness to fight Beijing for Taiwan," which will bear witness to Washington's determination to remain a power in Asia, according to the magazine. 
	
	
 The publication quoted Wu Guoguang, a professor at Hong Kong University, as saying that any concessions by Washington on the Taiwan issue could trigger a defection of its Asian allies, including Japan, to Beijing's fold. 
	
	
 But Beijing's leaders are not likely to blink on the issue either because an independent state in Taiwan would boost the schisms in Tibet and Xinjiang and threaten the regime in Beijing, the magazine claimed. 
	
	
 Although there is only scant possibility of a military conflict in the Taiwan Strait, the Nouvel Observateur said, Beijing's military buildup in its southern coastal provinces still makes the region "the most heavily armed place in the world next only to the Middle East," and a dangerous flashpoint in the 21st century.	


	
Beijing, July 17 (XINHUA)-- DaimlerChrysler AG said Monday that the international recall of Mercedes-Benz luxury cars did not affect vehicle owners in China. 
	
	
 A written statement made by the company's China branch revealed that no glitches had been found in China since its last recall in 1999, Tuesday's China Daily reported. 
	
	
 The Germany-based auto giant recalled 150,000 Mercedes-Benz luxury cars throughout Europe and the Middle East on Friday to fix a defect that could cause the driver's side air bag to deploy prematurely, the newspaper said. 
	
	
 The recall conducted in China in 1999 was purely a precautionary measure and no reports of any incidents in China had been received at that time, China Daily quoted the statement as saying. 
	
	
 The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers. The China Consumers Association said Monday that it had received five complaints of problems related with Benz cars in China, according to China Daily. 
	
	
 The problem was first discovered in March 1996 in Indonesia and led to a November 1999 recall of cars in the United States and Asia, where hot, humid conditions were thought to trigger the air bags. 
	
	
	


	
BRUSSELS, June 29 (AFP) -- Nearly 100 donor countries and international organizations opened their checkbooks here Friday to bail out struggling Yugoslavia after Slobodan Milosevic's lightning transfer to the UN war crimes tribunal in The Hague. 
	
	
 "Nobody is happy when a former president is taken before the tribunal in The Hague, but it had to happen and the sooner the better," Yugoslav Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus told reporters on his arrival here. 
	
	
 The donors' conference, co-sponsored by the European Commission and the World Bank, was hoping to raise 1.25 billion dollars (1.47 billion euros) for Yugoslavia this year for urgent repairs to infrastructure and salaries to teachers and other civil servants. 
	
	
 By midday, the conference had garnered pledges totalling some 1.37 billion dollars in grants and low- or no-interest loans over the next three years, against the target figure set by the World Bank of 3.9 billion dollars for what Belgrade would need for the three-year period. 
	
	
 The European Commission anounced it had pledged a financial package of grants and loans totalling 530 million euros (450 million dollars). 
	
	
 "This pledge is in addition to the pledges of individual EU member states that will be made separately at the conference," said Gunnar Wiegand, spokesman for External Affairs Commissioner Chris Patten. 
	
	
 Labus said the United States, which had until the last minute been uncertain of attending the conference, contingent on Milosevic's extradition, pledged 181.6 million dollars during the morning session. 
	
	
 A German source said Germany had pledged 153 million marks (66.32 million dollars). 
	
	
 Japanese Ambassador to the EU Takayuki Kimura said his country had pledged 50 million dollars, in addition to technical assistance and another 10 million dollars to the whole of southeast Europe, most of it to Yugoslavia. 
	
	
 Johannes Linn, World Bank vice-president for Europe and Central Asia, said the bank had pledged 150 million dollars for the current calendar year and "over the next three years we expect to support Yugoslavia to the tune of about 540 million US dollars in concessional loans." 
	
	
 Linn said that as a result of recent changes in Belgrade, including the Milosevic extradition, "we will now be talking about Yugoslavia as an integral part of the successful formula of trust for economic recovery in the region." 
	
	
 Aside from the financial assistance, said Labus, "this conference is symbolic for us. We are now fully back into the international community, politically, diplomatically and financially, and that's very important for us. 
	
	
 "We decided to make some bold decisions," he said. "We decided to take the fast track to Europe and implement directly the international rules." 
	
	
 Labus said Milosevic's extradition "is of course a part of the equation," but added "broad economic reforms and democracy that we introduced into the country" had played a major role. 
	
	
 "The fact that Milosevic is on the way to be brought to justice is just a signal that my country is ready to respect all international obligations." 
	
	
 Labus recalled that his country was recovering from "a decade of dramatic economic decline, including trade isolation and sanctions... 
	
	
 "We are in the middle of a very complicated process of changing almost completely our political and economic system...This process is long and painful, but we are determined to win." 
	
	
 Infrastructure, including power, water, rail and roads, he said, were "suffering from many years of decay, mismanagement and the consequences of the NATO 1999 bombing campaign" that ended Belgrade's repression of Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority. 
	
	
 "A Yugoslavia that has a firm and decisive program of economic reforms in place is and is increasingly integrated into the wider international community is no longer a dream, it is now a reality." 
	
	
 "There is no quick fix" to the Yugoslav problem, the World Bank's Johannes Linn said. "But the costs of failing to support Yugoslavia as it struggles to break with the past would surely be higher still. 
	
	
 "The possibility of a democratic, stable and prosperous Yugoslavia moving toward integration with Europe is something which we dared not hope for only eight months ago." 
	
	
 In Berlin, Bodo Hombach, coordinator of the Balkans Stability Pact, said several delegations to the Brussels conference told him it was now "easier and more motivating" to supply Belgrade with the aid it desperately needs. 
	
	
 The Stability Pact was launched two years ago to rebuild the region after years of war and communism.	


	
Indonesian authorities have been alerted to the presence of another boat believed to be carrying illegal immigrants bound for Australia. Coastwatch Australia says the boat is 75 nautical miles from Christmas Island [Australian territory in the Indian Ocean], but is still in Indonesian waters. 
	
	
 Indonesia has notified merchant shipping in the area to check if the boat needs any assistance. There has been an unconfirmed report that a Norwegian ship has reached the vessel. 
	
	
 Earlier Australia's immigration minister, Philip Ruddock, said it was believed the boat was carrying 80 people. Coastwatch Australia has maintained surveillance flights in the area for the past two days and will continue flights tomorrow.	


	
Bangkok, Aug. 28 (CNA) -- The Taipei-based Chinese Federation of Labor (CFL) attended the Asian regional meeting of the International Labor Organization (ILO) held Tuesday in Bangkok, mainly because of its work to protect foreign laborers in Taiwan. 
	
	
 CFL President Lin Hui-kuan led the Taiwan delegation to the meeting in the name of observer of the International Confederation of Free Trade Union (ICFTU). It was the first time that a Taiwan labor group has been invited to participate in a meeting of the ILO, which is an affiliate of the United Nations. 
	
	
 The CFL's participation in the meeting did not meet with any objection from Beijing, as it attended as an observer of a non-U.N. organization. Beijing opposes Taiwan's participation in any international organization in which sovereignty is a prerequisite. 
	
	
 Lin told CNA that the CFL gained high appraisal in its efforts to protect the rights of Thai, Filipino, Indonesian and Vietnamese workers in Taiwan. 
	
	
 Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added. 
	
	
 He indicated that although Taiwan is not a U.N. member, it has signed two international agreements related to labor affairs and abides by all the regulations stipulated by the ILO. 
	
	
 Recently, Lin added, the Republic of China government was about to eliminate the minimum wage requirement for foreign workers mainly due to pressure from the business sector. However, through the protests of local labor groups, foreign laborers' working rights were protected, bringing extra attention to the power of Taiwan labor groups. 
	
	
 Lin noted that Taiwan is one of the ICFTU founders and that its participation in the ILO can serve as a model for Taiwan to take part in international activities. 
	
	
 Lin and his delegation are scheduled to return home Sept. 1 after the quadrennial meeting.	


	
MDC leader Tsvangirai at it again in South Africa 
	
	
 Herald Reporter 
	
	
 OPPOSITION youths are agitating to get guns to "shoot" President Mugabe "out of office," MDC leader, Mr Morgan Tsvangirai said in South Africa yesterday. 
	
	
 Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule". 
	
	
 "The first choice is to commit ourselves to the constitutional path with all its obstacles. We are saying we will not resort to any violent overthrow or to any violent means," he was quoted as having said. 
	
	
 "...You have people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below who are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office, but I say: Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do," he said. 
	
	
 Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake. 
	
	
 The US Congress is set to consider the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Bill, which seeks to impose sanctions on Harare. 
	
	
 Mr Tsvangirai called for international action to ensure a free and fair presidential election. 
	
	
 But he opposed any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent. 
	
	
 "If sanctions are imposed on Zimbabwe, it will not survive. That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option. 
	
	
 "Until such time as Mugabe actually subverts the electoral process - when one goes to that extreme, international sanctions will be an option. 
	
	
 "However, we do support certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe," he said. 
	
	
 Mr Tsvangirai might face charges of contravening the Law and Order Maintenance Act for allegedly threatening to violently remove President Mugabe from power last year. 
	
	
 His trial was set to start at the High Court in May but the case was referred to the High Court after he challenged the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court. 
	
	
 The superior court has since heard State and defence arguments on the legality of the charges being laid against the opposition leader and reserved judgment. 
	
	
 If the Supreme Court rules in favour of Mr Tsvangirai, who if convicted on the charges might face life imprisonment, the Attorney General's Office will have to draw up a new charge. 
	
	
 But if the appeal fails, the matter will be referred back to the High Court for trial. 
	
	
 Charges against the MDC leader arose after he allegedly told a crowd at the party's first anniversary last year that "... Zvatichada, what we would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully. If you don't want to go peacefully, we will remove you violently." 
	
	
 That according to the State constituted a breach of the LOMA. 
	
	
 The MDC leader also alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy. 
	
	
 But analysts expressed concern that the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa". 
	
	
 "But anyone who wants to speak the language of violence where Zimbabwe is concerned is playing with fire. Zimbabwe's performance in Mozambique, Somalia and the DRC speaks for itself. 
	
	
 "The quickest defeat of Tsvangirai and his MDC lot would come if they chose the path of violence," an analyst who spoke on condition of anonymity said.	


	
A cow grazing near the village of Meresti [Harghita County] was bitten by a fox suffering from rabies. As a consequence, the cow was infected as well. This is the first such case here, and the third one since 1999. The symptoms appeared within a few days. The owner though that the animal was suffering from some intoxication, which was confirmed also by the veterinarian called to examine the cow. Very soon, however, the symptoms indicated that it was suffering from rabies: it was banging its head against the crib and it was very restless. The owner put down the animal, although the vet had forbidden him to do so. The latter took the cow's head to a lab, where they found that it had been suffering from rabies. The owner and a neighbor who had helped him put down the animal were sent urgently to the Hospital for Infectious Diseases in Miercurea Ciuc, where they received preventive anti-rabies treatment. The carcass of the cow was burned and buried, and the stable was disinfected.!
 The Harghita County Sanitary and Veterinary Directorate has started an anti-rabies campaign, in which they are to vaccinate more than 70,000 cattle, horses, sheep, and pigs in 22 localities.	


	
Russia favours creation of "international instruments" to regulate emissions 
	
	
 Text of report in English by Russian news agency Interfax 
	
	
 Moscow, 16 July: The Russian Foreign Ministry has called for "taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions. A Foreign Ministry statement in connection with the opening of a conference of the signatories to the UN framework convention on climate change in Bonn reads that taking into account Russia's interests "is of vital importance from the viewpoint of prospects for the ratification of the Kyoto protocol inside the state". Russia is "interested in creating international instruments for regulating emissions, which will guarantee the stable economic development of all signatories to international agreements on the climate sphere without any exceptions", the statement reads. "The US decision to withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases negatively affects the world community's efforts to ensure the global and efficient character of the Kyoto protocol," the document reads. 
	
	
	


	
China's minister in charge of Taiwan affairs says Beijing will not resort to force to defend Taiwan despite the changing situation on the island, which he described as "our renegade province". 
	
	
 Wang Yi, who made a three-day working visit to Thailand last week, sought to allay fears amongst allies in Asia about its cross-straits ties with Taiwan. He gave an assurance that the situation would not escalate into war despite the latter's acquisition of offensive weapons from the United States. 
	
	
 "Weapons cannot prevent Taiwan from reuniting with China," he told Thai and Chinese media last week. 
	
	
 Wang's visit, which will also take in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia, comes as pressure mounts on both sides to resume dialogue as Beijing is poised to become a member of the World Trade Organisation next year. 
	
	
 Taiwan will follow suit shortly after. 
	
	
 He said Beijing will maintain its pursuit of peaceful unification with Taiwan and welcomed the resumption of dialogue, bogged down since 1999. 
	
	
 At that time, then president Lee Teng-hui demanded political parity by unilaterally redefining bilateral ties as "special state-to-state" relations. 
	
	
 While President Chen Shui-bian has mellowed his stance on independence, he has refused to bow to the "one-China policy", a precondition for dialogue. 
	
	
 In his latest speech, Chen said the long-standing dispute with China must be resolved through dialogue with respect to the principles of democracy and freedom. 
	
	
 Nevertheless, Taiwan heightened its diplomatic campaign through what Wang said was "parliamentarian" or "private diplomacy" to win recognition from Beijing's allies. 
	
	
 Beijing was so worried about the tactic that Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji raised the matter in May with Thai leaders during his official visit to Thailand. He said the number of Thai politicians visiting Taiwan, especially members of Parliament, was increasing at an "unusual" rate. 
	
	
 "We disapproved of these visits because no matter in what capacity these people travel, Taiwan treats them as official visits. To us, parliamentarians still hold a quasi-official status," he said. 
	
	
 Taiwanese officials in Bangkok always claimed these trips from Thailand to Taiwan were voluntary and initiated by the visitors themselves. 
	
	
 Wang said Beijing raised no objections to the so-called stop-over tactic used by Taiwanese leaders as long as the visits do not generate political activities in the host country. 
	
	
 Despite a still-tense relationship, Wang is optimistic reunification will eventually happen as was the case with Hong Kong and Macau. He said the decline in President Chen's popularity could be attributed to the drop in the number of people favouring independence. 
	
	
 "I believe less than 10 per cent of Taiwanese now favour independence," he said. 
	
	
 However, according to broad statistics, Taiwan-born voters favouring independence account for 65 per cent of the island's 23 million population. Wang believes unification will benefit people on both sides of the Taiwan Straits. Last year there were 2.85 million Taiwanese visitors in China, he said. 
	
	
	


	
VIENNA, Sept 6 (AFP) - The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe agreed Thursday [6 September] to send 25 additional monitors in Macedonia, joining the 26 observers working to prevent a new Balkans war in the republic. 
	
	
 OSCE ambassadors from the organisation's 55 member states agreed to send the additional monitors after Russia lifted its objections to the beefed up presence. 
	
	
 Russia had slowed the decision, which was expected to have been announced a week before, raising concerns about their mandate in contrast with that of the NATO mission to collect weapons from ethnic Albanian rebels. 
	
	
 Macedonia has asked for more monitors, hoping they would help stop the country plunging into civil war between ethnic Albanian guerrillas and the Slav majority of the population. 
	
	
 NATO has entered Macedonia to collect weapons from the guerrillas, but its 30-day mission is due to end on September 26. That means Macedonia's stability will depend on other organisations, including the OSCE. 
	
	
 But the monitors' mandate, established in 1992, only includes surveying the security situation and the return of refugees, an OSCE official said. 
	
	
 The permanent council is still to adopt a new mandate which would make the OSCE, among others, responsible for training a new Macedonian police force, helping to organise a census and new elections, he added. 
	
	
 "In the meantime, doubling the number of monitors should help put people's minds at ease," he said. 
	
	
 The OSCE comprises 55 states in Europe, central Asia, the United States and Canada. Monitors have been present in Macedonia for some years alongside European Union observers. 
	
	
	


	
Tajikistan: drug-busting hampered by obsolete equipment 
	
	
 Text of report in English by Russian news agency Interfax 
	
	
 Moscow, 5 July: Due to poor technical equipment, Tajikistan seizes only 10 per cent of the drugs transited through its territory from Afghanistan, Director of the Tajik anti-drug agency Rustam Nazarov has said. "Since our technical equipment is far from perfect, we perhaps seize even less than 10 per cent," Nazarov said in an interview with the Thursday edition of Nezavisimaya Gazeta. Out of 2,200 kg of drugs seized this year in Tajikistan, only 837 kg were seized at the border, and the rest inside the country, Nazarov said. "Our agency seriously needs equipment for detecting drugs," he said. "We do not have special devices for inspecting large automobiles and cargoes," Nazarov said, adding that his service does not have enough communications equipment, either. 
	
	
	


	
On the afternoon of August 29, after several delays due to various causes, Japan successfully launched its H2A rocket No. 1 into space from Tanegashima Space Center. This milestone puts Japan's aerospace development program back on track. 
	
	
 The carrier rocket is the foundation of space exploration and utilization. It is also the first hurdle to overcome to realize any astronautical program. Japan previously developed the L and M series of launch vehicles. However, these two rockets are primarily used to launch low orbit satellites. In order to launch large stationary satellites, Japan developed the H series rocket. The major performance characteristics of the H series rocket are comparable to those developed by the United States and some European nations. The Japanese aerospace community takes a great deal of pride in this achievement. 
	
	
 In order to compete with the United States, Europe, and China, Japan decided to drastically reduce its costs, especially in every aspect of rocket design and manufacture. It adopted the simplest design and implemented various cost-cutting measures in an attempt to lower the manufacturing cost per satellite from 19 billion yen to 9 billion yen. It is supposed to be the next generation rocket that is both inexpensive and highly reliable. However, things did not go according to plan. This low cost approach brought about a series of satellite launch failures. In November 1999, a "multi-purpose" satellite was launched by H2 rocket No. 8. It did not enter its predetermined orbit and had to be destroyed. This was the third failure in a row. After this incident, Japan began to redesign the main engine of the H2 rocket. Eventually, the H2A rocket was developed. 
	
	
 In addition to carrier rockets, Japan also invested heavily in the development and utilization of various satellite technologies. Japan wishes to build a $21 billion per year aerospace industry centered on commercial satellite development. In the field of satellite communications, Japan's National Space Development Agency (NASDA) spent $310 million to develop the ETS-8 (Engineering Test Satellite 8) satellite. This satellite doubled the capacity of the test satellite previously launched by Japan. This program not only puts Japan in the lead in providing new mobile communication services in the Asia-Pacific region, but also allows Japan to test some new satellite communication techniques to be introduced worldwide. A Japanese made H2A rocket will launch this satellite in 2002. 
	
	
 Military surveillance satellites are also included in its development plan. Japan has prepared a military space program and allocated $1.3 billion to implement it. It will create a military surveillance satellite system consisting of two optical satellites and two radar satellites. 
	
	
 Japan also has a huge space power plant plan. It proposes to construct a gigantic solar power plant in space. The power generated will then converted to microwaves to be received by microwave receiver stations on earth. It is then converted back to electricity. In addition, it also plans to develop 12 satellites, a new generation of unmanned space lab, a space station supply system, and a space shuttle in the next 5 years. 
	
	
 In the past decade, despite its stagnating economy, Japan has still put space exploration as a top priority item in its space program. The Japanese aerospace industry has an ambitious plan to explore the planets. Its first target is the moon. Presently, Japan is implementing these plans in different stages. "Lunar A," one of the major projects, is aimed at delivering two penetrators on the moon to collect various data. One will be located near the landing site of Apollo 14 and the other near a ring-shaped mountain range on the dark side of the moon. "Selene," a project that has a $200 million price tag, will be launched in 2003. It is comprised of two lunar orbiters and a soft landing spacecraft. The soft-landing vehicle will be responsible for data collection and transmission back to earth for further processing. 
	
	
 Japan is determined to become a major power in aerospace. It is its national policy. It is also the path to becoming a major military power. Between 1970 and the end of 1999, Japan launched a total of 66 satellites. In terms of quantity, it is only behind the United States and Russia. In addition, it also takes part in the international space station project and has developed its own astronauts. Japan also has a relatively strong aerospace industry. In 1998, its revenue was 1.1 trillion yen, which represents a 10.5 percent market share worldwide. 
	
	
 After two years of stalemate, the Japanese government recently reorganized its aerospace development agency. Furthermore, it set priorities for the next five years. They include a spy satellite, a data relay satellite to transfer data between satellites, an unmanned universe lab system, a test satellite for communications and broadcasting, an observation satellite for environmental protection, "Kibo" the Japanese experimental module of the space station and its supply system, and the H2A carrier rocket to launch all the spacecraft mentioned earlier. By 2010, Japan will increase its global market share in aerospace to 17.4 percent. This is the goal set by the Japanese. 
	
	
	


	
Havana, January 12 (XINHUA) -- Cuba will not create obstacles to the U.S. decision to hold part of the Taliban and al-Qaeda war prisoners at the U.S. naval base of Guantanamo, the Cuban government said in a statement on Friday. 
	
	
 This is the first time that the Cuban government has expressed its position over the U.S. holding of the Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners in its territory. 
	
	
 Guantanamo is part of the Cuban territory, but the Cuban government will not create obstacles to the U.S. transfer of the war prisoners there, it said. 
	
	
 The Guantanamo Bay has been in U.S. hands since the Spanish- American War in 1898. The United States has refused to give up the facility, which is sealed from Cuba by a heavily guarded, 27- kilometer perimeter fence, despite Cuban objection to its continued existence. 
	
	
 In the statement, the Cuban government said the country would maintain close contacts with the U.S. military personnel in the naval base. 
	
	
 A first group of 20 war prisoners from Afghanistan arrived Friday afternoon at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo on the southeastern tip of Cuba, about 1,000 kilometers from the capital city of Havana.	


	
JAMMU, India, Jan 12 (AFP) -- Four Pakistani soldiers were killed Saturday in cross-border shelling in Kashmir, Indian officials said. 
	
	
 Lieutenant Colonel H.S. Oberoi said Pakistani troops had started shelling Indian border villages in the Krishna Ghati area of Poonch, 255 kilometres (158 miles) northwest of Jammu, Kashmir's winter capital. 
	
	
 Indian forces retaliated, killing four Pakistani soldiers and destroying six bunkers, he said. 
	
	
 He said there were no Indian casualties, although some homes, which had been deserted by villagers, were damaged. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Beijing, Jan. 12 (Yonhap) -- Criminals have been increasingly preying on Korean travellers and residents in China with the increase of exchanges between the two countries since the opening of diplomatic relations in 1992. Over the past three years, 15 Koreans were murdered, 177 were assaulted, 95 kidnapped or illegally confined, and 64 robbed, the Korean Embassy in Beijing said Saturday. The figures are feared to be higher since many cases were not reported, an embassy official said. The most frequent crimes involved the loss or theft of Korean passports, according to the official. Last year alone, 1,800 Korean passports were reported missing in China -- 1,000 in Shenyang, Liaoning Province, 400 in Beijing and 200 in Shanghai, the official said. Missing passports find their way to human traffickers, he said. 
	
	
 "About 90 percent of foreigners' missing passports are Korean's, and the missing passports are being used mostly for crimes like illegal entry, downgrading the nation's credibility in the international community," the official said. The number of crimes committed by Koreans has also been on the increase. Among the crimes are illegal trafficking or forgery of passports, drug production and transportation, smuggling, overstaying visas and drunk driving, the official said. Last year, 1.6 million Koreans travelled to China, up from 1.34 million in 2000, and the number of Korean students in China hit 16,000, more than any other country; Japan trailed with 15,000 students, the official said. hsj@yna.co.kr	



   US begins flying Afghan prisoners to Cuba

 



  WASHINGTON: The US military on Thursday began flying al-Qaeda 
and Taliban prisoners under heavy guard from Afghanistan to jail 
at the American Navy base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a military 
spokesman said.

  An Air Force C-17 cargo plane with 20 of at least 371 
"detainees" being held in Afghanistan departed Kandahar air base 
at about 11 am EST (1600 GMT), Marine Corps Maj. Brad Lowell, a 
spokesman for the US Central Command in Tampa, Florida, said.

  "There were 20" on the plane, Lowell said. He declined to say 
when the first prisoners might arrive at facilities surrounded 
by razor wire at the US Navy Base at Guantanamo Bay.

  US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told reporters that major 
security precautions were being taken in moving the prisoners, 
including hard-line, anti-Western followers of fugitive 
guerrilla leader Osama Bin Laden.

  Lowell said some small-arms fire was directed at US troops on 
the Kandahar base after the aircraft took off in the early 
evening Afghanistan time, but that the C-17 was not fired upon. 
No injuries were reported as a result of the gunfire, which came 
from outside the base, he added.

  "The aircraft had departed earlier when the Marines at the 
operating base received fire. At no time was that aircraft in 
any danger. It did not perform any evasive maneuvers," Lowell 
said.

  Marines dealing with Kandahar threat: "The Marines there are in 
the process of dealing with that threat. Our initial reports 
have no injuries."

  A US Marine spokesman in Kandahar told CNN late on Thursday that 
the gunfire came from snipers that penetrated the outer 
perimeter of the base and was not believed to be linked to the 
transfer of prisoners.

  "These were two isolated incidents, in that the detainee 
movement was something that we did not get official notification 
that we were going to do until this morning," Lt. James Jarvis 
said. "I don't believe that it is going to affect our transfer 
of detainees because, quite simply, we have adequate security 
for that."

  In Washington, US defense officials earlier said that 
unprecedented security -- including chains and possibly sedation 
and hoods -- might be used in transporting the prisoners, who 
include members of Bin Laden's al-Qaeda guerrilla network.

  One of the officials, who asked not to be identified, said that 
planning called for the prisoners, not yet charged with crimes, 
to be manacled together and outnumbered by specially trained 
guards carrying incapacitating stun guns.

  Others confirmed a report in USA Today that consideration was 
being given to tranquilizing some of the detainees and perhaps 
even covering their heads with hoods for flights that would take 
more than 12 hours.

  The human rights advocacy group Amnesty International expressed 
concern about reports that the prisoners "may be drugged, hooded 
and shackled," saying that they must be treated with full 
respect for international standards.

  "If restraints are necessary, they must be applied humanely, 
with adequate opportunity for the prisoner to move limbs, use 
the bathroom and eat and drink," the group said in a statement.

  Rumsfeld told reporters on Thursday that every effort would be 
made to secure hardline prisoners, many considered dangerous and 
possibly suicidal followers of Bin Laden. The al-Qaeda leaders 
is accused by Washington of masterminding the September 11 
suicide aircraft attacks on New York and Washington.

  "They (military officials) have been authorized and instructed 
to use appropriate restraints. They are fully aware that these 
are dangerous individuals," he said during a press conference 
with Australian Defence Minister Robert Hill.

  'Willing to kill themselves, others': "There are among these 
prisoners people who are perfectly willing to kill themselves 
and kill other people," Rumsfeld added. He provided no details 
except to say that the Pentagon had consulted experts on prisons 
and prisoners.

  The US military has so far taken control of more than 300 
prisoners at a base in Kandahar and others at Bagram air base 
near Kabul, at Mazar-i-Sharif and aboard the Navy helicopter 
assault ship USS Bataan in the northern Indian Ocean.

  The Pentagon refused to discuss details of the transfer, and 
Defence Department spokeswoman Victoria Clarke said on Thursday 
that no announcements would be made until the first detainees 
arrived at the secluded base, where a high-security, barbed 
wire-enclosed facility is being built.

  "What we have done all along is (said) that they are being 
treated humanely in accordance with the Geneva Convention," 
Clarke told reporters.

  The convention sets out the rights and responsibilities of war 
prisoners and their guards.

  Hundreds of US military police and Marine Corps reinforcements 
have been flown to the "Gitmo" base, as it is called, in Cuba 
and prisoners will be held inside a compound ringed by two 
fences topped with razor wire.

  For most of the day they will be held in small cells with a 
concrete floor and chain-link walls, with spotlights on at 
night.

  It was not known if American John Walker, captured fighting with 
Bin Laden's now vanquished protectors the Taliban, would be 
among those brought to Guantanamo.

  The Defence Department has not announced any decision on how 
many of the detainees will be transferred or how many, if any, 
might face military courts martial authorized by President 
George W Bush in the wake of the September attacks.

  Under close scrutiny from civil rights groups, Rumsfeld has been 
studying how such trials could be held while protecting the 
rights of any defendants and keeping tight security over the US 
war on terrorism declared by Bush after the attacks.



Copyright @ 2001 Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved. |


   Mugabe confident of victory in historic Zimbabwe vote

 



  HARARE-Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe predicted victory 
Saturday as he cast his ballots in presidential and local 
elections at a primary school in Harare's working-class suburb 
of Highfield.

  Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested 
election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it 
because I will have won."

  The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since 
independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial 
power Britain and other western nations, which he said have 
prejudged the vote.

  "They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the 
president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.

  Mugabe has faced widespread criticism and sanctions from the 
European Union and the United States over alleged rights 
violations and manipulation of the election process.

  Tinkering has left voting procedures so confusing in Harare that 
even Mugabe and his top aides appeared unsure of where the 
president was to vote.

  Mugabe was clearly expected to turn up at Mhofu School in 
Highfield, where state television had a truck posted and had 
been broadcasting live since polls opened early Saturday.

  Several of Mugabe's ministers and senior aides were also on hand 
to see their leader cast his ballot, as well as a throng of 
reporters and camera operators.

  But it turned out the president would perform his civic duty 
instead at Kudzanai School, also in Highfield. Mugabe had to 
vote at that particular ward in order to be able to cast ballots 
both for president and for mayor in Harare, which is holding the 
two elections simultaneously.

  The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) complained 
that the set-up was deliberately confusing in a ploy to 
discourage the urban vote, which is thought to favor Mugabe's 
challenger Morgan Tsvangirai. -AFP

  
@ Pakistan Observer 1998-2001




   Midweek: Wheel turns with a vengeance for the Taliban

 



  AS Camp X-ray in Cuba's Guantanamo Bay continues to fill with 
Muslim militants who had sworn to die rather than be captured, 
even the little we see of their situation makes it clear they're 
in hell.

  Many in the outside world are disturbed by conditions in 
"Gitmo". The United States dismisses such concerns: it's a 
prison, after all; remember the Black Hole of Mazar-iSharif.

  Anxiety arises, however, from the sense that the cultural gulf 
between these prisoners and their captors is so vast that the 
latter genuinely do not see how a diet of peanut butter and 
bagel chips can be considered cruel and inhuman punishment.

  The suffering of these particular prisoners is, indeed, 
particularly great. Their prayers are now led by a victorious 
enemy soldier - what could be worse? Quite a lot, as it happens. 
Crouched in their cages in Cuba, they must know that back in 
Afghanistan TVs are glowing, Bollywood is bellowing, men are 
shaving, women unveiling and sending their daughters to school.

  One can feel sorry for the hapless vanquished now on that limbo 
rock in the Caribbean, and hope that some might follow the 
threads of their tortured consciences back out of the labyrinth, 
having duly met and been eaten by the Minotaur.

  Still, it might be doubly difficult for the Afghans among them 
ever to go back, if the new administration of their home country 
goes ahead with rebuilding the Buddhas of Bamiyan for their 
potential as a tourist attraction.

  It's been almost a year since the Taliban blew up those 
monumental 1,500-year-old sandstone statues in northcentral 
Afghanistan, at which time the only way for the rest of us to 
handle the insult to human sensibilities was to emulate the 
Gautama Buddha himself, and profess relief.

  Those statues probably hadn't been a good likeness of him, 
anyway. His clothes probably never looked quite like that - the 
statues' fashion sense had been clearly influenced by the 
Greeks, what with Alexander the Great having passed through on 
his way to giving up with India.

  As for likenesses, the Buddha said on his deathbed: "All 
composite things arise and decline. Work out your salvation with 
diligence." So he is unlikely to have been enamoured of statues.

  Which, one supposes, was indeed the motivation of those who blew 
away those statues to leave two giant holes in the Afghan 
landscape, in the process paying unthinking tribute to some of 
the Buddha's subtlest and most profound teachings on the nature 
of impermanence and the perils of delusion.

  Besides, those statues had been defaced long before they were 
finally reduced to rubble. One of them had lost not just its 
face but its entire head. The other had a big hole in its 
crotch, at which someone had launched a rocketpropelled grenade 
back in '98.

  Judging by its demeanour, the statue hadn't felt a thing. But 
the Taliban commander who aimed that RPG was certainly ascribing 
human characteristics to a lump of stone. Which was most 
disturbing of all, because such was the very sin that rocket was 
supposedly intended to expunge.

  So those poor bullet-scarred statues made everyone look sad and 
foolish, and their final immolation a year ago put them out of 
their misery, so to speak.

  Even at the time, though, this was a stretch for even the most 
ardent apologist. The veil of compassion was hardly elastic 
enough to pull over those two great big holes in the earth.

  That was the moment at which the fabric of compassion tore, and 
worlds cracked apart; when the contrast and conflict of 
civilisational values became so great as to remove any sense of 
common ground - even on which to do battle. On both sides of the 
divide after that gratuitously destructive event, anything went. 
And did, spectacularly.

  Of all the unconscionable things the Taliban did to Afghan 
society in the six years of their reign, their demolition of the 
Buddhas of Bamiyan last March cleaved the rift between 
civilisations that was rammed wide open by hijacked aircraft 
over America just six months later, and which the US has since 
cauterised with the molten metal of its military might.

  And so it has come ironically to pass that, one year on, a new 
Afghan order is dreaming of rebuilding those statues, while 
what's left of the Taliban now sits in cells a world away, 
beardless, bald and clad in saffron.


Copyright @ The New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad, Balai 
Berita 31, Jalan Riong, 59100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.


China criticizes US human rights report

 



  BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the 
United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind 
eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries 
for theirs.

  The report by the Information Office of the State Council, 
China's Cabinet, listed evidence of police abuses, poverty, 
racial discrimination and lack of personal safety in the United 
States, the official Xinhua news agency said.

  It also accused Washington of "wantonly infringing" on the 
sovereignty of other nations through military operations and 
stationing US forces overseas, Xinhua said.

  The report also slammed US President George W. Bush's 
administration for withdrawing from the Kyoto Protocol on 
cutting greenhouse gases.

  China releases the report every year in response to a US State 
Department report on global human rights conditions, which 
usually accuses China of widespread abuses. The US report came 
out last week.

  "Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge 
of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many 
countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused 
them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind 
eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese 
report said.



Copyright (c) 2001 The Manila Times |




U.S. wants Kyoto dropped from U.N. meet agenda

 



  
Tadayoshi Sakaguchi Yomiuri Shimbun Correspondent

  The United States, having pulled out of the Kyoto Protocol, is 
now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as 
one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn 
up at the United Nations.

  The United States has demanded that wording on bringing the 
Kyoto Protocol on global warming into effect in 2002 be excluded 
from the implementation documentation of a global environmental 
agenda being drawn up at the third session of the preparatory 
meeting of the U.N. Conference on Environment and Development 
(UNCED), sources said Thursday.

  The Kyoto pact grew out of the Conference of the Parties (COP) 
to the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change, which itself 
came out of UNCED.

  The United States has pulled out of the protocol, which obliges 
developed countries to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and 
announced in February a voluntary U.S. plan to slow the growth 
of global warming gasses.

  The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in 
its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other 
countries, including those in the European Union as well as 
Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.

  The implementation documents, being drawn up at an 
intergovernmental meeting at U.N. headquarters in New York, are 
based on a chairman's paper announced at the second session of 
the preparatory meeting in January. It states how to implement 
Agenda 21--a U.N. global action program for environmental 
restoration, preservation and social development.

  The chairman's paper stated that the countries will do their 
best to ensure 1997 Kyoto Protocol is put into effect in 2002 to 
curb global warming. It also stated developed countries would 
give financial and technical support to those countries 
vulnerable to climate change, such as island nations, and 
alleviate the global warming's impact by introducing devices 
such as satellite observation systems to monitor rising sea 
levels.

  The U.S. government delegation, however, demanded that these 
statements in the chairman's paper be reworded to say that 
countries would tackle climate change in line with the schedule 
agreed upon at COP7 (the seventh session of COP), which mapped 
out implementation of the Kyoto Protocol at an appropriate time.

  Furthermore, concerning assistance to island countries, although 
the U.S. delegation agreed to establish satellite observation 
systems, it demanded that wording about the impact of global 
warming be deleted. The delegation said that a causal relation 
between unusual climatic phenomena and greenhouse gas emissions 
has not been proved.

  The general opinion among other developed countries, however, is 
that the scientific data is commonly interpreted as linking 
droughts, floods and rising tides to global warming.

  
===

  
Cabinet OK's ratification draft

  The Cabinet endorsed for Diet approval a bill for ratification 
of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to 
fight global warming. The bill was submitted to the Diet later 
that day.

  In preparation for ratification, the government has already 
adopted a framework that would achieve the protocol's target on 
greenhouse gas emissions. After the Diet ratifies the protocol, 
work will begin on cutting gas emissions.

  
Copyright 2002 The Yomiuri Shimbun


   Geneva Convention applies to Taliban, not Al Qaeda: US

 



  WASHINGTON, Feb 7: The White House on Thursday declared that the 
Geneva Convention applies to Taliban forces in the Afghanistan 
phase of the war on terrorism, but not to Osama bin Laden's Al 
Qaeda followers.

  "President Bush today has decided that the Geneva Convention 
will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda 
international terrorists," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer told 
reporters.

  The move comes after fevered criticism - including from key US 
allies - stemming from alleged mistreatment of Taliban and Al 
Qaeda detainees the United States is holding at "Camp X-Ray" in 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

  "It will not change their material life on a day-to-day basis: 
they will continue to be treated well because that's what the 
United States does," said Fleischer, who noted neither group 
would be granted prisoner of war status. And, "Al Qaeda is an 
international terrorist group and cannot be considered a state 
party to the Geneva Convention. Its members therefore are not 
covered," by the accord, said the spokesman.

  DETAINEES ARRIVE IN CUBA: A new group of 28 prisoners captured 
in Afghanistan arrived by air on Thursday, bringing the total 
number of detainees to 186.

  Six of the detainees were transported on stretchers aboard the 
C-141 cargo flight that left Kandahar, Afghanistan on Wednesday 
for the 25-hour flight.

  Earlier on Wednesday, the US military resumed controversial 
flights of heavily guarded Al Qaeda and Taliban captives from 
Afghanistan to a naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a senior US 
official said.

  The official, who asked not to be identified, told newsmen that 
the first flight of captives in more than two weeks had left 
Afghanistan late on Wednesday and was to arrive at the isolated 
prison camp late on Thursday. The official did not say how many 
prisoners were on the flight.

  Flights carrying up to 30 of what the Pentagon calls "detainees" 
were suspended on Jan 23 by defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld 
pending expansion of outdoor jail facilities at the American 
base.

  A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to 
classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and 
interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been 
treated properly under the Geneva Convention.

  None has yet been charged with a crime, but Washington has 
maintained that the prisoners are being treated humanely.

  The shackled and blindfolded captives are being flown to Cuba 
from Kandahar in southern Afghanistan under tight guard and are 
being housed at the base in 8-by-8-foot cage-like outdoor cells.

  The detainees at "Gitmo," as US soldiers call the base, are of 
various nationalities. Saudi officials have said that 100 are 
from the Gulf kingdom and have demanded they be returned to face 
justice at home.

  Bush said last week he was willing to consider Saudi Arabia's 
request on a case-by-case basis but U.S. officials doubted it 
would happen any time soon.-AFP/Reuters



@ The DAWN Group of Newspapers, 2002


   Mugabe victory leaves West in tatters

 



  HARARE: Western countries were left frustrated and impotent 
after Robert Mugabe formally declared that he had overwhelmingly 
won Zimbabwe's presidential election.

  The extent to which Mugabe outmanoeuvred the west was made clear 
when southern African countries issued a surprise statement 
declaring the conduct of the election free and fair. The move is 
almost certain to scupper any hope of the Commonwealth 
suspending Zimbabwe next week.

  At the weekend the European Union, prodded by Britain, is 
planning to extend the range of sanctions against Zimbabwe, 
targeting more members of the leadership. Earlier this year, the 
EU imposed a travel ban on Mugabe and 19 members of his regime 
and froze their overseas assets. But there were no illusions in 
Britain or elsewhere in Europe that the measures will have any 
real leverage in Harare.

  The Zimbabwe registrar-general, Tobaiwa Mudede, declared that 
Mugabe had won a fifth term in office after the results from all 
120 constituencies were returned. He said Mugabe had won 
1,685,212 votes against 1,258,401 for challenger Morgan 
Tsvangirai, leader of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC).

  "We foresaw electoral fraud but not daylight robbery," 
Tsvangirai said. "We find ourselves unable to endorse the 
purported election of President Robert Mugabe as Zimbabwe's 
president in this election. It's the biggest election fraud I've 
witnessed in my life."

  The MDC leader said the onus was on "the people" to lead the 
way, whether passively or not. "We seek no confrontation with 
the state because that's what they want. But the people 
themselves have to decide what action to take," he said.

  In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days 
to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to 
history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the 
government.

  "We need Tsvangirai to tell Mugabe he cannot steal this 
election," said Noel Gukuta, a youthful MDC voter. "The soldiers 
have guns so we cannot fight him but we can make sure he cannot 
rule us. We must strike, we must march, we must show that we are 
not goats." The country took the news of Mugabe's victory with 
no great celebrations or protests.

  The government, sensing murmurs about revolt, put the army on 
full alert, deployed troops in key townships and the police set 
up roadblocks on the main roads into Harare to stop and search 
vehicles for weapons.

  The UK foreign secretary, Jack Straw, said: "For months the 
government of Zimbabwe has conducted a systematic campaign of 
violence and intimidation, designed to achieve an outcome - 
power at all costs."

  A senior state department official in Washington later said: 
"We're considering further steps, given all the things that 
happened before and during the elections." Apart from the 
result, the main jolt yesterday was that election observers from 
South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia effectively endorsed the 
election.

  "It is our considered view that the election was free and fair 
and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's 
observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was 
"watertight, without room for rigging".

  The South African team described the election as "legitimate" 
while the Nigerian observers said they had seen nothing that 
threatened the integrity of the poll.

  The Commonwealth trio to decide on action next week is made up 
of Australia, which will back suspension, the South African 
leader, Thabo Mbeki, and the Nigerian president, Olusegun 
Obasanjo. In Zimbabwe the leadership of the congress of trade 
unions is considering calling a two-day general strike to test 
whether there would be popular support for a longer protest, and 
various civil rights groups are meeting today to discuss mass 
civil disobedience. The MDC's lawyers are also studying the 
possibility of legal action.

  In the final results, Mugabe made a net gain of votes compared 
with the 2000 parliamentary election in every province in the 
country. While there was evidence of vote tampering in some 
areas, most of the ballots dropped into the box with a cross by 
Mugabe's name were not fraudulent. There has been no criticism 
of the count.

  "This is a runaway victory," said the justice minister, Patrick 
Chinamasa. "It was won on the issue of the land."-Dawn/The 
Guardian News Service.



@ The DAWN Group of Newspapers, 2002




   US human rights report termed inaccurate

 



  ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US 
State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate 
and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some 
states to sit in judgment on others.

  "The reports fails to acknowledge the important policy measures 
and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and 
protect human rights," said a statement issued by Foreign Office 
spokesman in which the report was termed as factually inaccurate 
and unwarranted. It pointed out that all the goals set at an 
April 2000 human rights conference had been achieved, which it 
added had been ignored by the report.

  Enlisting these initiatives, it recalled that these include 
promulgation of the Juvenile Justice System Ordinance, the 
establishment of a permanent commission on the status of women, 
police and jail reforms, national policy and plan of action for 
elimination of child labour and establishment of a fund for 
rehabilitation of working children.

  The government, it added, has amended Pakistan Citizenship Act 
of 1951 to enable women of Pakistani descent to claim Pakistani 
nationality for their children born to foreign husbands. A mass 
awareness campaign was launched as part of the observance of the 
Year 2000 as the year of Human Rights and Human Dignity, it 
added.

  In addition, it said, Pakistan also ratified ILO Conventions 100 
on equal remuneration and 182 on the elimination of worst forms 
of child labour. It signed the Optional Protocols to Convention 
on the Rights of Child. Recently the system of joint electorates 
has been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority 
communities, it said. Despite these developments, the report 
states "the government's human rights record remained poor."

  "This is unacceptable and a gross misstatement of the facts. The 
government of Pakistan therefore, feels constrained to reject 
the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the tendency of 
some states to sit in judgment over others."

  "The cause of human rights would be better served if all states, 
in a spirit of cooperation and understanding address the 
problems they face in promoting and protecting human rights," it 
said.



@ The DAWN Group of Newspapers, 2002



	
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries. 
	
	
 The two heads of state met under an canvas awning set up for the occasion a few hundred metres (yards) from the Gatuna border post, an AFP correspondent reported. 
	
	
 The formerly close allies fell out in 1999, the year after each sent troops to back rebel movements in the neighbouring Democratic Republic of Congo, when mounting rivalry lead to violent clashes between their own armies there. 
	
	
 Museveni and Kagame have met three times since the fighting broke out in the DRC city of Kisangani, the main town in the northeast of the country, but without patching up their differences. 
	
	
 In March, Uganda declared Rwanda a hostile nation because of tensions arising from Kigali's alleged support for a rival to Museveni in a presidential election. 
	
	
 The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents. 
	
	
	



   US human rights report invites scorn

 


Author:     CHIDANAND RAJGHATTA - TIMES NEWS NETWORK [ TUESDAY, MARCH 05, 2002 1:21:47 PM ]

  WASHINGTON: Unprecedented scepticism and scorn accompanied the 
release by the United States on Monday of its annual human 
rights report amid charges of hypocrisy and double standards 
arising from the ongoing war on terrorism.

  Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as 
Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a 
briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights 
Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the 
Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless 
ritual.

  Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil 
liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving 
press corps that the exercise was evenhanded. The report does 
not look at the state of human rights in the US itself because, 
in the words of one official, "that wouldn't be fair."

  The individual country reports is a compendium of alleged human 
rights violations culled from various sources, mostly the local 
media. The report on India, for instance, is more than 100 pages 
long and painstakingly lists incidents of rights violation 
across the country both by the government and terrorist, 
militant, and subversive groups.

  The human rights report exercise was originally linked to US 
foreign assistance, but increasingly many countries are taking 
it less seriously in the face of Washington glossing over the 
record of its so-called allies. While secular and democratic 
countries such as India merit a litany, a country like Saudi 
Arabia, one of the least free countries in the world, was turned 
over in 32 pages. The US has shown no inclination to punish 
allies it bankrolls such as Egypt and Turkey while berating 
countries less relevant to it.

  Critics in the media sharply questioned such duplicity at 
Monday's briefing as Lorne Cramer, US Assistant Secretary for 
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labour, struggled to defend 
American policy. Excerpts from the briefing:

  Question: Just give us a couple examples what you're doing in 
Saudi Arabia, Uzbekistan, Egypt.

  Assistant Secretary Craner: I'll throw out a few examples. In 
Uzbekistan, we're undertaking a programme to help a variety of 
civil society groups around the country come together to 
formulate future plans. In Kyrgyzstan, we talk about the press 
in Kyrgyzstan, and we're going to help fund an independent 
printing press there. Those are just two examples that are 
coming out of my office.

  
Q: What about Saudi Arabia?

  
Craner: We're getting there.

  Q: Lorne, I want to follow up on Saudi Arabia. I'm a little bit 
surprised by your glib answer. With the demise of the Taliban, 
there is arguably no government in the world that has as bad a 
human rights record as Saudi Arabia does. What is the United 
States doing to actively promote democracy and human rights with 
Saudi Arabia?

  Craner: Well, I would say two things. Number one, I disagree 
that it's the worst violator.

  
Q: Who is the worst violator?

  Craner: I would place Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a 
couple of other countries into that category.

  Q: You didn't answer my question. What is it that we are doing 
in Saudi Arabia to promote that greater voice and greater 
democratic participation?

  Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do 
that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world, 
in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more 
democratic.

  Q: At what levels are we talking? I mean, there's nothing that's 
visible at all to us in the outside world.

  Craner: Okay. I would look at the last paragraph, the last 
couple paragraphs, of the President's State of the Union 
Address.

  Q: But I heard this before. I'm asking specifically about one 
country.

  
Craner: Yes. What are you asking?

  
Q: I'm asking what it is the United States is doing.

  Craner: And I think I've outlined that. We're talking to them at 
many levels about these issues in their country. We're talking 
to a lot of people across the Arab and Muslim world about these 
issues in their countries and about how they can serve as 
examples to others.

  Q: Can I go back to Robin's question on Saudi Arabia? Can you 
point to any kind of tangible things? And when you say we're 
talking to the Government of Saudi Arabia, are we talking to 
them about starting such programs up, or are we just simply 
mentioning that they have a human rights problem?

  Craner: Can I talk about tangible advances in particular 
countries? There are things I would point to. Pakistan's 
decision to eliminate the requirement that religious minorities 
be elected separately from the mainstream electoral system.

  
Q: Is that something we've talked to the Saudis about?

  
Craner: They don't have elections.

  Q: (Inaudible) before -- that previous administrations have done 
before on Saudi Arabia. We've been talking for years with the 
Saudis. What's different?

  
Craner: How do you know that?

  Q: Because other administrations told us that they've talked to 
the Saudis about human rights and democracy issues, 
participation in women's rights and all of it.

  Craner: Well, yeah, I understand. Other administrations have 
talked about these issues. I hope you're gong to see more of an 
effect from this administration.

  
Q: But what is it -- that doesn't answer the question.

  
Craner: What is different currently?

  Q: What's different from what this administration is saying to 
them than previous administrations have said to them?

  Craner: You'll have to judge by the outcome. You'll have to see 
how we do it differently.

  Q: Why can't you give us some indication? What's the big secret? 
You talk about what we're doing tangibly in every other country 
but Saudi Arabia.

  
Craner: Because I don't yet know the effect in Saudi Arabia.



Copyright @ 2001 Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved. |




   Mugabe says he is wide awake for polls

 


Author:     AP [ TUESDAY, MARCH 05, 2002 3:19:14 PM ]

  HARARE, Zimbabwe: A defiant President Robert Mugabe said his 
party had lost ground to the opposition through complacency, but 
would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway, state 
radio reported on Tuesday.

  "We are now wide awake," Mugabe said at a rally Monday. "We 
won't let the (Movement for Democratic Change) win."

  Mugabe described the opposition as "a donkey being controlled by 
the British," the former colonial power.

  The fledgling MDC won 57 of 120 elected seats in June 2000 
parliamentary elections as Mugabe's popularity plunged amid 
economic devastation and chaos.

  The U.S. State Department released a human rights report on 
Zimbabwe Monday that accused the government of extrajudicial 
killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and 
waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters 
and potential supporters of the opposition."

  Security forces tortured opponents, ruling party militants 
abducted people, and police arrested opposition supporters who 
were themselves the victims of crimes. Freedom of the press and 
freedom of assembly were also severely restricted, the report 
said.

  In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for 
refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the 
Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit 
of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.

  Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand demanded the 
suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth to protest 
state-sponsored violence and human rights abuses against the 
opposition.

  Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until 
Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a 
victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of 
apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.

  Tendai Biti, the MDC's foreign affairs spokesman, said Mugabe 
was trying to hide his policies of violence and intimidation 
behind his rift with Britain.

  "It is not a Zimbabwe-Britain crisis. Our people are being 
brutalised by fellow black Zimbabweans. This is the issue we 
would want our African brothers to have understood," he said.

  African leaders closed ranks at the Commonwealth summit out of 
fear for their own power, he said.

  "The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored 
in their countries," Biti said.

  The state-run Herald newspaper, a government mouthpiece, said 
Tuesday British Prime Minister Tony Blair had showed personal 
arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his 
commitment to democracy."

  The election on Saturday and Sunday presents the strongest-ever 
challenge to Mugabe's rule.

  The opposition accuses the government of using violence, 
intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to 
prevent it from effectively campaigning.

  Foreign diplomats based in Harare said Monday police prevented 
them from finishing a meeting on Monday with MDC leader Morgan 
Tsvangirai.

  Police declared the meeting with about 35 ambassadors and 
members of their staffs illegal under new security laws 
requiring police permission for political gatherings. Tsvangirai 
called the meeting to discuss food shortages gripping Zimbabwe 
and measures his party was considering to combat them, diplomats 
said.

  
Police had no immediate comment.

  State radio also reported Monday that three opposition lawmakers 
tried to bribe Zimbabwe's air force commander to help calm 
security forces if Mugabe were removed. Opposition officials 
said the claim was part of a government smear campaign.

  Foreign governments have pressed Mugabe to restore the rule of 
law. The president promised he would, but the violence has 
escalated, with dozens killed in February.



Copyright @ 2001 Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved. |




Pakistan rejects US human rights report

 



  ISLAMABAD - Pakistan Tuesday slated US State Department's 
country report on human rights situation in Pakistan and 
labelled it "factually inaccurate and unwarranted."

  "The report fails to acknowledge the important policy measures 
and initiatives by the Government of Pakistan to promote and 
protect human rights," a Foreign Office spokesman said.

  The spokesman said that the US report ignored the implementation 
of almost all initiatives announced and set at an April 2000 
human rights conference.

  These initiatives included the promulgation of the Juvenile 
Justice System Ordinance, the establishment of a Permanent 
Commission on the Status of Women, police and jail reforms, 
national policy and Plan of Action for elimination of child 
labour and establishment of a fund for rehabilitation of working 
children.

  The spokesman said: "The Government has amended Pakistan 
Citizenship Act of 1951 to enable women of Pakistani descent to 
claim Pakistani nationality for their children born to foreign 
husbands. A mass awareness campaign was launched as part of the 
observance of the Year 2000 as the Year of Human Rights and 
Human Dignity."

  "Pakistan also ratified ILO Conventions 100 on equal 
remuneration and 182 on the elimination of worst forms of child 
labour. It signed the Optional Protocols to Convention on the 
Rights of Child. Recently, the system of joint electorates has 
been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority 
communities," the spokesman said.

  The spokesman said that despite these developments, the report 
states `the Govt's human rights record remained poor'. "This is 
unacceptable and a gross misstatement of facts," the spokesman 
said.

  "The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to 
reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the 
tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others. The 
cause of human rights would be better served if all states, in a 
spirit of cooperation and understanding, address the problems 
they face in promoting and protecting human rights."

  He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to 
promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the 
assistance of friendly countries towards that end.




Britain's Prescott Pushes for Kyoto Pact Backing

 



  VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S. 
support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an 
international conference on business and the environment on 
Friday.

  Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto 
agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on 
the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary 
emission-reduction targets.

  "This is the world's best chance of dealing with a very serious 
threat to it," Prescott told delegates from 65 nations at the 
Globe 2002 conference in Vancouver that ended on Friday.

  Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the 
United States until recently was critical of the science that 
led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains 
optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other 
signatory nations would converge.

  The Kyoto Protocol calls on countries to reduce emissions of 
so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are 
blamed by many scientists for global warming, to pre-1990 levels 
by 2012.

  Named for the Japanese city where it was approved, the pact was 
signed by 84 countries, including the United States and Canada. 
Fifty-five countries responsible for 55 percent of emissions in 
1990 must ratify it for it to take effect. Forty-nine countries 
had done so as of mid-March, according to the United Nations.

  Europe's environment ministers have agreed that all 15 EU 
nations should adhere to the Kyoto Protocol. Ratification could 
win support at an EU summit later this month in Barcelona, 
Spain. The process is expected to be completed by June 1.

  Prescott said the British program aims to cut emissions by 20 
percent, and the country is now half way to that goal.

  The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will 
hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of 
the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels 
and destruction of various plants and animal species.

  Canada is among the countries that have pledged to ratify the 
accord. Canada's Environmental Minister, David Anderson, is 
under pressure from the country's energy producers to follow the 
U.S. position.

  Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that 
financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the 
potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."

  A study by the Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters Association 
said the accord would cost the Canadian economy up to C$40 
billion by 2010, but a Dutch report released earlier this week 
said it would only be C$727 million.

  "At the least the difference between some estimates clearly 
shows a great deal more talking and assessment is needed," 
Reuters quoted Prescott as telling the delegates, who 
represented both business and environmental groups.


Elaborating on the 'axis of evil'

 



  PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush's National Security Adviser Condoleezza 
Rice has recently "defined" the context and scope of the term 
"axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address 
a few weeks ago to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea. The 
criteria set by Rice are the following: the three countries in 
question are repressive and grave human rights violators, and 
aggressively seeking weapons of mass destruction.

  By all conservative estimates, there are scores of other 
countries which can easily qualify as repressive and violating 
human rights. The rule, as far as human rights are concerned, is 
that every nation which does not enjoy pluralistic democracy is 
violating human rights and is therefore oppressive. There are 
many countries in the world that hardly qualify as pluralistic 
democracies. On this count, the national security adviser may 
have erred.

  As for her wording regarding acquisition of weapons, what is 
particularly noteworthy is the use of the words "aggressively 
seeking" nuclear, biological or chemical weapons. In other 
words, countries which are seeking or developing such arsenal at 
a slow pace do not seem to come within the scope of the "axis of 
evil". One can name more than a dozen countries which are 
contemplating the acquisition of mass destruction weapons at one 
speed or another. All other countries which are seemingly 
refraining from acquiring such weapons are doing so not so much 
to escape being branded as "evil" but rather because they have 
neither the knowledge nor the money to join the "nuclear club".

  Come to think of it, acquiring weapons of mass destruction per 
se may not be a correct basis for judging whether a nation is 
good or evil. The mere development or possession of mass 
destruction weapons is not in itself a reason to label a state 
as evildoer. After all, the US is the first nation to have 
developed nuclear weapons. Moreover, the US is the first and 
only nation ever to deploy such weapons.

  Perhaps the real criterion in this context is whether the 
nuclear country is democratic in every sense of the word.

  Washington seems to be particularly disturbed and feel that its 
own national security is being threatened only when the nations 
which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or 
repressive, irrespective of the pace of amassing weaponry. This 
is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that 
democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it 
comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction. If this is 
the case, Rice could have elaborated more precise criteria for 
membership in the "axis of evil," by establishing more clearly 
the connection between the nature of the regime and the 
acquisition of weapons of mass destruction.


Club Fed And Our Invisible Troops

 


 
 
DefenseWatch (sftt.org) 
January 30, 2002 
Club Fed And Our Invisible Troops 
By David H. Hackworth

  The brouhaha created by breast-beating human-rights groups over 
our military's treatment of the terrorist scuzz now vacationing 
at the Pentagon's recently opened Cuban Club Fed - eagerly aided 
and abetted by a press too prone to the sensational - is 
something else. These bleeding hearts claim we're brutalizing 
the captives by forcing them to wear orange jumpsuits, sleep on 
mats, exercise daily, shower frequently and eat special food.

  My buddy, a Connecticut cop, finds the protests fascinating. He 
says, "I'm having a lot of trouble concentrating on my job 
because of the prisoners at Guantanamo."

  Then, with a twinkle in his eyes, he adds: "Are they getting 
enough sleep, the right diet, enough prayer time? We have to 
keep them happy and healthy. They only want to murder all of us 
the first chance they get."

  Amen. Their perp pal responsible for the first World Trade 
Center attack jabbed a sharpened comb into a guard's eye while 
he was in the pokey. This time around, they've already bitten 
one of the soldiers guarding them and threatened to kill anybody 
else who gets too close. After all, these are the folks who 
spent their leisure time back in Afghanistan skinning captives 
alive - when they weren't playing soccer with their heads.

  
Think of them as kamikaze killers looking for an edge.

  However you want to categorize these creeps - who are living a 
lot better at Club Fed than they ever did in the caves of Tora 
Bora - Geneva Convention rules are for uniformed soldiers, not 
for skyjackers who fly commercial planes filled with moms and 
dads into office buildings manned by civilians operating 
computers, or for zealots who kill Arab women because they drive 
a car or don't cover their faces. Al-Qaeda is a terrorist 
organization, not a state, and its crazies wear street gear and 
operate disguised as civilians. Terrorists dressed to pass like 
these were often shot right on the spot during World War II and 
the Korean War.

  I'm personally offended that none of the whistle-blowers seems 
to give a damn about the welfare or safety of our sons and 
daughters guarding these thugs. Have you read any stories about 
the dangers they face? Have any of our politicians bothered to 
inspect our kids' living conditions when they've jetted into 
Gitmo to check out the terrorists' treatment and pick up some 
tube time?

  Had anyone checked, they would have discovered that our U.S. 
Army Military Police guarding the terrorists think the prisoners 
are being treated a lot better than they are. They're not 
pleased that the brass, the lawmakers and the press are more 
interested in the well-being of the detainees than the soldiers 
guarding them, and that they might as well be invisible.

  Here's what our soldiers from the Army's 401st MP Company out of 
Fort Hood, Texas, who are the main monster-watchers, are saying:

  "We live like crap down here with no extra pay or tax break, and 
we feel that no one up above gives a rat's ass about us," a 
sergeant says. "Our officers are more concerned with doing 
Pentagon damage control concerning the detainees than looking 
after the troops."

  "The detainees sleep on soft mats on a nice surfaced floor while 
we sleep on cots inside tents with dirt floors. They get four 
hot meals a day, fresh fruit, regular issues of snacks such as 
sunflower seeds, regular clean clothes laundered by the Marine 
supply system," says another soldier. "We get canned food and 
MREs, canned fruit. We buy our own snacks and do our own 
laundry."

  "The Marine general here says we can have a beer when off duty, 
but our Army leadership is running so scared that it set a 
no-drinking policy," says another troop. "We are responsible 
enough to secure the prisoners, but not enough to have a beer."

  "The Red Cross put us in a very dangerous situation with their 
demands, and sadly our leadership went along with it," a soldier 
said. "We've been told to lie to Marine inspectors over 
standards and requirements. The Marines are right, the Army's 
wrong, and we're stuck in the middle."

  Maybe someday, do-gooders, editors, lawmakers and senior Army 
leaders will remember our soldiers are human beings with human 
rights, too, and get their side of the story. Charity should 
begin at home.


Stretching The Case For Inhumanity

 


Washington Times 
February 6, 2002 
Pg. 15

  
Stretching The Case For Inhumanity

  
Terrorist thugs at Gitmo don't deserve their treatment

  
By Vito Fossella

  Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer 
America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.

  The chronic complainers are outraged by, of all things, the 
treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being 
detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. They have absurdly criticized 
as "inhumane" the decision to temporarily place prison suits, 
handcuffs and blindfolds on the terrorists during transfer to 
protect the military personnel guarding them. They have even 
demanded upgraded accommodations, seemingly forgetting that 
these are the leaders of a worldwide terrorist organization who 
have repeatedly vowed to kill innocent Americans through war or 
terror.

  Far from being treated inhumanely, the al Qaeda and the Taliban 
terrorists are better fed, better clothed and better cared for 
than they would be if they were still roaming the cold caves of 
Afghanistan. They eat three nutritious meals a day, including 
halal, cereal and granola bars. They enjoy their own large cell, 
talking freely with one another, worshiping with a prayer 
leader, and writing home.

  Indeed, the evil-doers at Camp X-Ray are getting far better 
treatment than they deserve - hot showers, a warm Caribbean 
climate and access to the exact same medical care as the 
military personnel who live on the base. It seems our critics 
would prefer that the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists instead 
stay at the Ritz-Carlton.

  By way of contrast, the men and women of our military who have 
the extremely dangerous job of guarding these thugs live in 
12-person tents, take cold showers using a hose, and often must 
cope without the benefits of electricity. They have been away 
from home for months, and they serve our nation with dignity and 
honor.

  As I toured Camp X-Ray, I stared into the faces of evil. As I 
stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier 
fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison 
riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent 
people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those 
who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in 
Afghanistan. I have no doubt that, if given the opportunity, any 
of the detainees would have relished the chance to kill me. 
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the 
terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and 
talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing 
the American people.

  There is a greater purpose behind Camp X-Ray than merely 
detaining these violent enemies of the United States. At 
Guantanamo Bay, federal officials are conducting extensive 
interviews with the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists, culling 
information on the terrorist network and the whereabouts and 
future plans of the tens of thousands of terrorists who were 
trained in the same camps and who are now living around the 
world.

  Already, intelligence gathered from other al Qaeda detainees has 
uncovered potential plots to attack American embassies, nuclear 
power plants and public water facilities. In the caves and 
hideouts of al Qaeda operatives, we have found instruction books 
on how to build chemical and biological weapons, detailed maps 
of American cities and descriptions of landmarks. The type of 
work that is occurring at Camp X-Ray may prove critical to 
preventing a new attack.

  President Bush and America deserve appreciation from all corners 
of the globe for leading the world in the war against terrorism 
and for making every nation safer.

  America's treatment of the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists at 
Camp X-Ray is appropriate and, in my opinion, too good for these 
murderous thugs. Instead of lecturing the United States, our 
critics may better spend their time reminding others that if 
terrorists don't want to be detained at Camp X-Ray, they should 
join the civilized world.

  Rep. Vito Fossella represents the 13th Congressional District of 
New York, including Staten Island and parts of Brooklyn.


Navy Officer Balances Religious Responsibilities

 


 
 
Miami Herald 
January 31, 2002 
Navy Officer Balances Religious Responsibilities 
By Carol Rosenberg 

  GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba -- You're the first-ever 
American Muslim cleric to minister to a prison camp full of 
suspected terrorists and one confides he has a weapon.

  
Do you keep the secret?

  
Or do you breach religious confidentiality?

  If you're U.S. Navy Lt. Abuhena Mohammad Saiful-Islam you search 
for a third way to resolve the clear conflict of interest 
between the crescent moon pin stuck in your left lapel and the 
lieutenant's bars on the right side of your uniform.

  ``I will say, `Give it to me,' -- and not tell the general who 
had it,'' he says softly but firmly. ``I'll make sure that he 
doesn't have it.''

  A 39-year-old life-long, practicing Muslim, the soft-spoken 
Bangladesh immigrant is navigating uncharted waters and juggling 
complicated loyalties -- all while managing an international 
spotlight he has never experienced before.

  As a U.S. military chaplain, his contacts with prisoners are 
governed by the same confidentiality as that of a priest, 
minister or rabbi in the clergy corps. Saiful-Islam is by 
training an imam, or a prayer leader, who guides the faithful in 
a mosque during the five-times-a-day Muslim prayer.

  At Camp X-ray, he is also serving the function of a muezzin, the 
person who announces the call to prayer, commonly from a tower 
called a minaret. In his case, he is using a public address 
system and recording the prayer for five-times-a-day broadcast.

  Sometimes he laughs uncomfortably when questioned by 
journalists. Sometimes he looks bewildered. But mostly he's a 
busy man, trying to soothe Muslim sensitivities over the rugged 
chain-linked-fence cells at Camp X-ray.

  
Advocate

  Saiful-Islam arrived at the detention center for suspected 
terrorists on Jan. 24 and made his debut by chanting the 
pre-dawn call to prayer to wake up alleged leaders of 
Afghanistan's Taliban militia and members of Osama bin Laden's 
al Qaeda network.

  Since then, he has emerged as their advocate, arguing that the 
U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few 
amenities of everyday Islamic life.

  Soon, he says, traditional white knit skullcaps will arrive for 
the captives to top off their fluorescent orange jumpsuits.

  Saiful-Islam has also asked for some copies of the Koran, in 
Urdu, a language of Afghanistan and Pakistan, plus large-type, 
Arabic copies for those with bad eyesight or those who read like 
elementary school children.

  ``These things are hard to find in America, and Gitmo is far, 
far away,'' says Saiful-Islam, a husband and father of a nearly 
2-year-old daughter in California.

  Until he emerged as the chaplain of choice for this special 
assignment from among only 14 Muslim clerics in the U.S. armed 
forces, he was the only cleric specifically assigned to a Marine 
Corps base -- at Camp Pendleton, Calif.

  Military recruiters building a Muslim chaplains corps spotted 
Saiful-Islam in 1993, while he was an enlisted man working as a 
payroll clerk in the Pentagon and studying part-time to become a 
Muslim cleric.

  He was commissioned as an officer in 1998, just a year after 
obtaining U.S. citizenship and nine years after leaving his 
homeland to study in America.

  The first time he was sent to a theater of combat came in 
October when he served as chaplain at Operation Brightstar, a 
huge military exercise in Egypt not far from the World War II 
battleground called al-Alamein.

  
No Answers

  His role has a curious juxtaposition, which he sums up simply. 
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he 
says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that 
have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called 
Great Satan, the United States.

  ``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and 
neither does the religion, Islam.''

  But after several days of four- and five-hour shifts inside the 
camp, hearing the prisoners' requests, he said exchanges have 
not dipped that deeply into the doctrinal.

  
Mostly, they ask about their fate, and when they might go home.

  
``I don't have any answer for them,'' he says.

  Conversations between the cleric and the captives have taken 
place, one on one, in his native Bengali and Urdu. Others 
require the services of Arabic interpreters -- who, like 
Saiful-Islam, are U.S. military men in battle dress uniforms.

  So far no one has asked him how a practicing Muslim can also 
wear the uniform of the U.S. armed forces. It was a question he 
had expected. But instead, he says with surprise, ``They all 
want to speak with me. They all raise their hands'' to catch the 
attention of the U.S. government's designated spiritual leader.

  ``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,'' 
he says, with a sigh. ``I wish I had more time.''


   Officials bristle at US human rights report

 



  
Response is being prepared

  
Khalil Fleihan

  
Daily Star correspondent

  Local authorities have expressed dissatisfaction - but not 
surprise - with regard to excerpts about Lebanon in the US State 
Department's annual report on human rights, a copy of which has 
been delivered to the Foreign Ministry.

  An official source who described the reaction on Tuesday said 
the criticism was an annual event and emphasized that it was not 
directed at human rights in Lebanon only, but covered several 
other countries in as well.

  A copy of the report, which criticizes what it described as the 
weakening of the central government's prerogatives, has been 
handed over by the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy in 
Awkar, Carol Kalin, to the Foreign Ministry's acting 
director-general, Naji Abi Assi.

  The source said that the ministry would soon deliver copies of 
the report to the various ministries concerned, especially the 
Interior and Municipalities Ministry, prior to relaying its 
observations to the State Department in Washington.

  The report was seen as discrediting Lebanon by portraying the 
country as being undemocratic or uncivilized and abusing human 
rights, the source added. According to the source, the 
authorities' dissatisfaction with the contents of the report has 
been conveyed to US Ambassador Vincent Battle, who returned from 
Washington on Saturday after participating in a conference of 
American envoys posted to Arab countries.

  Each year, Lebanon sends an explanation to the State Department 
about the factors outside of the government's control.

  The source said the most serious point in the report was an 
observation that the judiciary was subjected to political 
pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in 
principle."

  The report's reference to intelligence agents' monitoring the 
activities of opposition politicians and tapping the phones of 
certain government leaders "is a serious matter and harms 
Lebanon's image as a democratic country," the source added.

  On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the 
Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of 
the government and its practices.

  
Your feedback is important to us!

  We invite all our readers to share with us their views and 
comments about this article.

  
Please type in your comment below and press 'submit'

  You must fill in your name and email address just in case we 
need to get in touch with you.

  The editor may decide to publish your comment as a letter to the 
editor;

  Your personal information will be kept confidential and will 
never be disclosed to anyone

  
Name

  
E-mail

  
Address

  
Tel

  
FAX

  
Please contact me as soon as possible regarding this matter.

  
DS

Copyright@ 2000 The Daily Star. All rights reserved.




Camp X-Ray

 


Time 
January 28, 2002

  
Camp X-Ray

  When is a war prisoner not a POW? When the U.S. brings Afghan 
detainees to Guantanamo Bay

  
By Michael Elliott

  It's not going to be a country club," said Defense Secretary 
Donald Rumsfeld last week, describing the new military detention 
camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and nobody ever expected it would 
be. The 110 al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners admitted to "Gitmo" 
by the end of last week are, said Rumsfeld, "the hardest of the 
hard core," men who had killed "dozens and dozens of people." 
But though it may lack tennis courts and a putting green, the 
amenities are better than you'd find in a cave at Tora Bora. 
True, prisoners are now confined to 6-ft. by 8-ft. chain-link 
enclosures with concrete floors and tin roofs (Rumsfeld thinks 
it's "pejorative" to call them cages). But relief will come; in 
three months, the Pentagon hopes to replace the facility with 
something more permanent.

  In the meantime, the prisoners at Camp X-Ray--as the place has 
been called since the early 1990s when it housed Haitian 
refugees--have been given thin green mats and blankets on which 
to sleep and pray, and are allowed to shower and exercise. They 
are provided with a medical exam upon admission, and their diet 
(is someone making a point about diversity here?) ranges from 
bagels and cream cheese to rice and beans--all eaten with 
plastic utensils--after which the prisoners may clean their 
teeth with specially shortened brushes. (The caution makes 
sense; in 2000 Mamdouh Salim, an al-Qaeda operative awaiting 
trial in New York City for his part in the 1998 embassy 
bombings, used a comb to stab a prison guard through the eye.)

  So far, humanitarian groups have been muted in their criticism 
of the conditions at Guantanamo. Last week a delegation from the 
International Committee of the Red Cross arrived to inspect the 
camp and offer private recommendations on its operation. But in 
the European press, the prisoners' lot has become a public issue 
of contention among those who demand that U.S. conduct be above 
suspicion. Three detainees are said to have claimed to be 
British citizens. Politicians and commentators in London are now 
clamoring that all held in Gitmo must be guaranteed treatment in 
accordance with international law. The Daily Telegraph, a paper 
usually so conservative that it makes Pat Buchanan look 
vegetarian, warned Washington of the need to draw a "distinction 
between civilized society and the apocalyptic savagery of those 
who would destroy it."

  At the heart of the matter is a question of legality. The 
Pentagon has resisted calling the detainees prisoners of war, 
preferring the terms unlawful combatants or battlefield 
detainees. It's easy to see why. Under the Geneva Convention, 
those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of 
hostilities; but that is the last thing the U.S. wants to do 
with men who may be al-Qaeda operatives. Moreover, by convention 
(though the law seems to be murky here) POWs don't need to tell 
their captors anything other than their name, rank, serial 
number and birthday. But for Washington, the whole point of the 
detention is to conduct interrogations and thus head off new 
acts of terrorism.

  The Geneva Convention does contemplate that some irregular 
forces captured in battle need not be considered POWs. That may 
well apply to members of al-Qaeda, a free-floating band of 
terrorists. But not all of those at Gitmo are al-Qaeda men. 
Some--the Pentagon won't say how many--were members of the 
Taliban and presumably thought they were part of the Afghan 
army. Are they POWs? Washington says no, because the Taliban had 
no clear chain of command and was not a legitimate government. 
That may be so; unfortunately, as Amnesty International has 
pointed out, under the Geneva Convention the Pentagon has no 
business making such a determination. Those who fall into the 
enemy's hands are entitled to POW status until a "competent 
tribunal" has determined their status. In the case of those in 
Cuba, that hasn't happened.

  More curious still is the matter of the prisoners' ultimate 
fate. Rumsfeld has laid out four options: a military trial, a 
trial in U.S. criminal courts, return to their home countries 
for prosecution, or continued detention "while additional 
intelligence is gathered." The last seems a distinct 
possibility; the Pentagon plans to build 2,000 cells at Camp 
X-Ray. "This will be a big deal down there for at least two 
years, guaranteed," says Army Lieut. General B.B. Bell, who 
commands Fort Hood, Texas, the base from which military police 
have been deployed to Cuba. But it's hard to find a 
justification for such detention in the Geneva Convention or 
anywhere else. Leaving the prisoners "indefinitely beyond the 
reach of any legal regime," said the Economist last week, "would 
put America--pre-eminently a nation of laws--itself outside the 
law."

  Until the Pentagon sorts out the legal issues, criticism from 
Europe is likely to grow. Still, things could be worse. The 
prisoners may be in Cuba, but nobody has yet forced them to 
listen to Fidel Castro's long-winded speeches. Now that really 
would be cruel.

  
With Reporting by Mark Thompson/Washington


U.S. Tells China Taiwan Remarks a Mistake - Xinhua

 



  BEIJING -- The United States told China U.S. President George W. 
Bush had made a mistake when he called Taiwan a country in a 
speech last week, the official Xinhua news agency reported on 
Sunday.

  Washington told China the U.S. government has not changed its 
Taiwan policy and said it would not refer to Taiwan in that way 
again, Xinhua quoted a foreign ministry spokeswoman as saying.

  Reports in Taiwanese newspapers on Friday said Bush called the 
island the "Republic of Taiwan" and a "country" in a speech to 
diplomats and business executives on Thursday.

  Calling Taiwan a country would threaten to compromise a major 
pillar of Sino-U.S. relations, which were set up in 1979 largely 
based on a U.S. nod to the "One China" Principle, which states 
that Taiwan is a part of China, Reuters reported.

  Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be 
reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an 
explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a 
country.

  Taiwan's ***United Daily News ***quoted a U.S. official as 
saying Bush's labeling Taiwan as a republic was a "slip of the 
tongue" and indicated no shift in U.S. policy.

  Bush was referring to the entry late last year and this year of 
China and Taiwan, respectively, into the World Trade 
Organization, reports said.

  The English-language ***Taipei Times ***newspaper quoted Bush as 
saying it was "important to recognize and to welcome both 
countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China, 
into the World Trade Organization."

  The Taiwan issue has often caused rough patches in bilateral 
ties and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan have angered Beijing.

  Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily *** 
newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to 
allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United 
States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback 
in Sino-U.S. ties.

  But foreign ministry officials later confirmed both sides were 
moving ahead with plans for a scheduled visit by Chinese 
Vice-President Hu Jintao to the United States in late April.


Bush Takes Great Leap Forward In Pledging U.S. Help In Defending Taiwan

 


Honolulu Star-Bulletin 
March 17, 2002

  
The Rising East

  Bush Takes Great Leap Forward In Pledging U.S. Help In Defending 
Taiwan

  
By Richard Halloran

  In a closed-door meeting in Florida last week, the Bush 
administration took a great leap forward in its declared policy 
that Taiwan remain separate from China so long as the people of 
Taiwan wish, even if that requires U.S. military force.

  The host of the three-day U.S.-Taiwan Defense Summit was Frank 
Carlucci, chairman of the U.S.-Taiwan Business Council, onetime 
deputy director of central intelligence, national security 
adviser to President Reagan, later secretary of defense and 
possibly the most secretive official in Washington in many 
years.

  Why the meeting was so hidden was not clear, other than to avoid 
flaunting it in the face of China, which claims sovereignty over 
Taiwan and protests every American action favoring the island. 
Even so, enough leaked out to illuminate President Bush's 
policy, which has been consistent ever since he enunciated it 
during his campaign for the presidency.

  The centerpiece was a visit by Taiwan's defense minister, Tang 
Yao-ming, the first since President Carter switched U.S. 
diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to China in 1979. That Tang 
was invited was more evidence that Bush has adopted the most 
pro-Taiwan posture of any president in nearly a quarter century; 
his stance differs distinctly from that of President Clinton, 
who tilted in favor of Beijing.

  The senior U.S. official at the gathering was Deputy Secretary 
of Defense Paul Wolfowitz, who has written: "It would be a 
strategic as well as a moral mistake for the United States to 
ever let China use force to have its way with Taiwan." He has 
cautioned, however, that the United States expected Taiwan to 
avoid provoking China.

  Tang asserted that Taiwan would do no such thing. After talking 
with Wolfowitz for two hours, Tang said he had guaranteed that 
his government would "by no means take any provocative step" 
toward China.

  The meeting, at an exclusive resort in St. Petersburg, brought 
out representatives of America's biggest defense contractors -- 
Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, General 
Dynamics, United Technologies, Textron, Honeywell International, 
and United Defense. Among them, they make every weapon Taiwan 
could possibly want to fend off the expanding might of China.

  China's military threat to Taiwan is not immediate. Adm. Dennis 
Blair, who commands U.S. forces in the Pacific, told Congress 
recently: "The PLA (Peoples Liberation Army) is still years away 
from the capability to take and hold Taiwan."

  The admiral cautioned, however: "Continued improvements in 
Taiwan's capabilities and development of USPACOM (United States 
Pacific Command) capabilities will be necessary to maintain 
sufficient defense."

  Bush began enunciating his policy on Taiwan in November 1999, 
saying that he would honor "our promises to the people of 
Taiwan" and "we deny the right of Beijing to impose their rule 
on a free people."

  The Republican election platform reflected the candidate's 
policy: "All issues regarding Taiwan's future must be resolved 
peacefully and must be agreeable to the people of Taiwan." It 
said that if China attacked Taiwan, "the United States will 
respond appropriately in accordance with the Taiwan Relations 
Act."

  The TRA, adopted after Carter broke relations with Taiwan, 
commits the United States to provide defensive arms to Taiwan 
and to view a threat from China with "grave concern." Bush has 
repeatedly referred to the TRA in a not-so-subtle message to 
China that the law is the bedrock of his posture on Taiwan.

  The most succinct statement of the Bush policy came from 
Secretary of State Colin Powell during his Senate confirmation 
hearing in January 2001: "We expect and demand a peaceful 
settlement, one acceptable to people on both sides of the Taiwan 
Strait."

  Shortly after Bush took office, he approved the largest U.S. 
arms sale to Taiwan, allowing Taiwan to buy four destroyers, 
eight diesel-powered submarines, 12 anti-submarine aircraft and 
a flock of missiles and other weapons.

  At the same time, he said the United States would do whatever it 
takes to help defend Taiwan. He told an interviewer: "China must 
know that if circumstances warrant, that we will uphold the 
spirit of the Taiwan Relations Act." Whatever decision Bush 
makes, a defense official said, the Pacific Command is ready "to 
respond to any potential crisis, including the use of force 
against Taiwan by China."

  The critical question: Will the Chinese, noting American 
military operations in Afghanistan, heed these warnings or will 
they miscalculate and try to call Bush's bluff?

  Richard Halloran is a former correspondent for The New York 
Times in Asia and a former editorial director of the 
Star-Bulletin. His column appears Sundays.


Jordan to sign Kyoto Protocol

 



  AMMAN - Jordan said it will sign the Kyoto Protocol, a UN pact 
on impeding global greenhouse gas emissions, following a recent 
Cabinet decision, according to Faris Juneidi, director general 
of the General Corporation for Environment Protection (GCEP).

  "Soon, the government will delegate Jordan's representative to 
the United Nations, HH Prince Zeid Ben Raad, to sign the 
protocol," Juneidi told The Jordan Times on Tuesday, adding that 
an exact date for signing of the environmental agreement had not 
been set.

  In 1997, at a UN conference in Kyoto, Japan, the Kyoto Protocol 
legally obliged developed countries to reduce the amount of 
greenhouse gas emissions by 8 per cent (below 1990 levels) 
between 2008 and 2012.

  Although developed countries are the world's main source of 
large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the 
protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the 
different international conventions," Juneidi said.

  With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract 
more funding to contribute to the international community's 
efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the 
earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.

  GCEP, an agency operating under the Ministry of Municipal and 
Rural Affairs and the Environment, is the country's point of 
reference for environmental pacts.

  On Monday, the 15 European Union member states agreed to be 
formally bound to the Kyoto accord, and complete the 
ratification by June 1 this year.

  In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by 
saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision 
slammed by European Union countries at the time. Instead the US 
government produced its own alternative climate change strategy 
aimed at encouraging industries to trim their emissions.

  Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance 
towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the 
national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic 
damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).


72 Hours At Camp X-Ray

 


St. Petersburg Times  
February 20, 2002 
Pg. 1

  
72 Hours At Camp X-Ray

  As the detention camp reaches capacity, reporters are invited to 
watch the interplay between detainees, guards and doctors.

  
By Paul De La Garza

  GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba - It begins as a shiny speck in 
the southeast skies of the lone landing strip here at Gitmo, the 
oldest U.S. base overseas. Within minutes the lumbering, gray 
C-141B Starlifter flies low over the tarmac and over a patch of 
palm trees, as if part of an annual air show. On a hot and windy 
afternoon, the deep blue waters of the Caribbean serve as the 
postcard backdrop.

  When the cargo jet finally lands, approaching the landing strip 
from the west, the noise is deafening.

  Almost immediately a crack security force of mostly baby-faced 
Marines surrounds the plane. They wear black baseball leg guards 
and bulletproof vests and carry M-16 rifles.

  Meanwhile, Humvees mounted with .50-caliber machine guns and 
40mm grenade launchers take their positions. A Navy helicopter 
whirls overhead.

  Once the aircraft is secured, the freak show begins, a sort of 
"Hannibal the Cannibal" production. Down the back ramp of the 
mammoth aircraft, the guards slowly unload the latest detainees 
from the war in Afghanistan, 34 altogether.

  Wearing bright orange wool knit caps, blacked-out goggles, 
earmuffs, white surgical masks, bright orange jumpsuits, denim 
jackets, beige mittens (taped around the wrists), handcuffs and 
ankle shackles, the detainees don't look natural.

  
They look like giant bright orange flies.

  After a 25-hour flight of mostly sitting, the prisoners hobble 
along as the Marines, who look twice as big, walk them out and 
frisk them. One soldier handles a captive like a mannequin - 
moving him back, forward, and to the side - before lifting him 
straight off his feet and onto one of two waiting buses.

  
"Walk! Walk!" the guards shout.

  
"Shut up! Head down!"

  "Man, they must be so scared," says a TV camerawoman watching 
with an international media pool from about 400 yards away.

  
"It must be freaky," chimes in her colleague.

  The prisoners are here because the military considers them 
"hard-core" terrorists - willing to escape, to kill themselves 
and others. But now they do pretty much as directed. They walk, 
they shut up, they lower their heads. They board buses that will 
take them to a ferry that will take them across Guantanamo Bay 
to a detention facility known as Camp X-Ray.

  A sign near the ferry slip conveys some of the strange vibe of 
Guantanamo, a 45-square mile naval base in which the detention 
camp comprises some 3 acres. The sign touts the area's wildlife 
- the brown pelican, the Antillean manatee, the bottlenose 
dolphin, the hawksbill turtle.

  "Watching wildlife can be a lot of fun," says the sign. "A pair 
of binoculars is helpful."

  Last Wednesday, the 10th flight from Kandahar to the 
southeastern tip of Cuba arrived, bringing the total number of 
detainees at Camp X-Ray to 288. A day later, another 12 came, 
effectively filling the camp to capacity.

  Base officials allowed reporters to record audio and report the 
landings live via cell phone for the first time since the 
flights began arriving Jan. 11. They refused to allow cameras.

  The last time the Pentagon released pictures of the detainees - 
on their knees, wearing the goggles, and surrounded by guards - 
the images created an international uproar. Rights groups cried 
inhumane treatment.

  Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld denied the allegations, 
insisting that the detainees have it better here than in 
Afghanistan.

  And he did what he routinely does when questioned about the way 
the United States is prosecuting the war on terrorism: He 
reminded critics of Sept. 11.

  When the detainees arrive at Camp X-Ray, they are told they're 
in Cuba and then undergo a 45-minute intake process, which, like 
the airstrip landing, is monitored by the Red Cross.

  The routine includes a delousing, or chemical washdown, and a 
physical. The detainees also get fingerprinted and photographed.

  They get a toothbrush, mint-flavored toothpaste, a bottle of 
"Lively Salon" antidandruff shampoo, soap, flip flops, a foam 
sleeping mat, two buckets, a washcloth, a canteen, a prayer cap, 
two blankets, a sheet, a Koran and two towels, one for praying.

  And, strangely, they get to write home. It's not that the U.S. 
military has a soft spot for the mothers of the Taliban or 
al-Qaida. Instead, base officials try to glean the prisoners' 
real names from the letters, as many tend to give multiple 
aliases during interrogations.

  When they're done, they're assigned to the cells in which they 
will begin their new lives. These are 8-feet-square, with 
chain-link sides and tin roofs. The Halogen lights stay on all 
night.

  The next day starts with prayer call about 5 a.m. A sign on a 
pole at the edge of the camp points the direction to Mecca. The 
prisoners come from 31 countries, including Saudi Arabia, Yemen, 
Pakistan, Algeria, England, Egypt, Australia, France, Russia, 
Belgium and Sweden. Base officials say there are Christian 
prisoners as well as Muslims.

  After prayer, the detainees' day goes like this: breakfast, a 
shower (every other day), sick call, noon prayer, lunch, 
recreation (15 minutes a couple of times a week), mail call, 
sunset prayer, dinner, evening prayer and bedtime around 9 p.m.

  Each meal the detainees get is considered halal, or religiously 
appropriate for Muslims. A typical breakfast includes oatmeal, 
an orange, fresh bread and a bottle of water. For lunch, it's 
pasta or vegetable stew, dry cereal including Froot Loops, a box 
of raisins, two granola bars, a bag of chips, and bag of peanuts 
and water.

  
For dinner they get white rice, red beans, a banana and water.

  U.S. Army Capt. Sean Campion, one of the camp guards, 
characterizes life at Camp X-Ray as "utter boredom."

  "If you do your job right," says Campion, 32, of Kansas City, 
Mo., "nothing is scheduled to happen."

  The guards mostly communicate with the prisoners via simple 
English commands and hand signals.

  "We're not holding any lengthy debates with them or anything," 
Campion says.

  Marine Corps Lt. Abuhena Mohammad Saiful-Islam, 39, speaks more 
with the detainees than almost anybody at the camp. As the 
Muslim chaplain, he ministers at the facility up to five hours 
every day.

  He says that with the start of the Muslim month of pilgrimage, 
during which the faithful journey to the holy city of Mecca, he 
detects more anxiety in the camp. Base officials are considering 
a special meal for March 10.

  "The role of chaplain is unique," Saiful-Islam says. "We don't 
go with a preconceived idea that the person is so and so. As a 
chaplain we approach them as a human being.

  
"We don't hate the sinner," he says, "but we hate the sin."

  Somebody asks Saiful-Islam if the relationship between the 
detainees and God has changed since their capture.

  "They haven't said that God has abandoned them, because they 
know," he says. "That's the hope that they have, that God is 
their only hope.

  "They do ask me what's going to happen. At this moment, I don't 
have an answer."

  Concertina wire and nine guard towers surround Camp X-Ray. The 
American flag is everywhere - painted on the guard towers, 
flying high in front of the facility.

  Unlike other parts of the base, the camp does not have a pretty 
setting. Turkey vultures hover over thick brush and scraggly 
hills.

  It is day two at X-Ray for the 34 newly arrived from Kandahar. A 
German shepherd and his handler patrol the camp's perimeter. 
Bright orange figures sit in their cells, some of them praying. 
One or two prisoners run for exercise in a fenced area, wearing 
handcuffs but no ankle shackles.

  Every so often a prisoner is led to one of five interrogation 
rooms, freshly built wood buildings with air conditioners and no 
windows. Three guards accompany him - one on either side and one 
behind.

  One of the guards puts a hand behind the head of the detainee, 
forcing him to look down. This is done to "provide positive 
control," says U.S. Army Col. Terry Carrico, in effect the 
prison warden.

  "It means he can't look ahead. He can't make a plan. They don't 
know where they're going. That's a technique across correctional 
facilities in the United States."

  Except for an occasional spitting incident or threat, officials 
say, the prisoners are docile. Base officials suspect that the 
people already in custody pass the word along to the new 
arrivals that they will be treated okay.

  "In the beginning, they were very unsure," says Carrico. "They 
didn't know if we were going to take care of them, hurt them or 
kill them."

  Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the 
prisoners. But U.S. Army Capt. Darrell Sides, 30, of Fort 
Benning, Ga., makes no bones about considering them terrorists.

  "We were all watching television Sept. 11," he says. "The 
security here I would consider tighter than death row in a 
prison in the United States."

  The morning run to Fleet Hospital 20 takes place as scheduled. 
This is for prisoners needing medical attention, as a fair 
number do. Some are underweight, others are missing toes, 
fingers and limbs.

  The hospital is several miles from Camp X-Ray, off Recreation 
Road. Along the way, if allowed, the detainees would get to see 
a bit of Americana, a portrait built over the past century.

  U.S. forces seized Guantanamo Bay during the Spanish-American 
War. In 1903, the U.S. government signed a lease with the 
Republic of Cuba. That contract, extended indefinitely in 1934, 
can be broken only by mutual agreement.

  The growth of the base has left Camp X-Ray surprisingly close to 
a suburban-style military community of beige, green and yellow 
houses in subdivisions with names like Caribbean Circle and West 
Iguana.

  Two boys in white karate outfits run down palm-lined Sherman 
Avenue. Another child, no more than 3 or 4, plays on a gym set, 
with a young woman keeping a watchful eye.

  Also up the road is the W.S. Sampson Elementary School, replete 
with yellow school buses, the Morale Welfare and Recreation 
Cooper Field with baseball and soccer fields, and the base's 
outdoor movie house, which is playing the movie, The Majestic.

  The 20-bed hospital is a high-tech, air-conditioned white tent 
which looks like a futuristic movie set, with low ceilings, 
fluorescent lighting, and padded white walls, floors and 
ceilings. The staff calls it a "temper tent."

  On this morning, U.S. Navy hospital corpsman Shuron Jerome, 19, 
of Houston is poring over a box of Valentines sent to Guantanamo 
by schoolchildren in Pennsylvania.

  
"Wish you could be with your family," one child has written.

  Jerome says the hospital feels no different than a hospital in 
the states, save for the high security and the various languages 
the detainees speak, including French, Russian, Urdu and Arabic. 
Most understand a little English, she says.

  While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that 
they're not "regular patients." She often finds herself 
thinking, "Oh, my God, they could be related to this or related 
to that. But I still try to treat them as a patient."

  Fleet Hospital 20 has nine patients today. The bulk of the work 
includes blast and gunshot wounds from the war in Afghanistan.

  Just the other day, however, a surgeon took out the eye of a 
patient who had suffered a sports injury when he was younger. 
The pressure on the eye had become unbearable.

  The story got international play because it seemed to underscore 
the fact that tensions between the Americans and the detainees 
were easing. Indeed, the patient invited the surgeon for a cup 
of tea after the operation.

  The staff gives reporters a quick tour of the hospital, allowing 
photographs of some sections but not of the patients.

  As an al-Jazeera television crew walks through, the staff rolls 
out a patient who has just had his right index finger amputated 
as a result of a gunshot wound. The cameraman continues filming 
while a nurse covers the patient's face.

  In the recovery room, the patient's body starts trembling. The 
doctors explain this is a common reaction as patients awake from 
anesthesia. Still, it provides a bit of drama.

  "Michel! Michel!" yells a doctor still in her operating clothes. 
"You're doing good."

  Another doctor, speaking with a French accent, adds, "Good job, 
buddy."

  Finally, an interpreter comes in to talk to the patient. Eight 
other young-looking men, with shaved heads and beards growing, 
recover in their cots. Most of them sleep.

  The medical staff relies on linguists to help communicate with 
the patients, but they've also come up with their own 
inventions, such as a longhand list of English phrases and their 
Arabic counterparts. In a pinch, they show the patients the 
list, which includes the following phrases: I'm in pain. 
Thirsty. Hungry. Bathroom. Urinate. Arm. Hand. Leg. Back. IV 
Hurts. Cold. Hot. Sick, will throw up.

  While calm has returned to Fleet Hospital 20, officials 
elsewhere on the base are bracing for what they say may be 
inevitable: the death of one of the detainees. Not at the hands 
of the guards. But with 300 already in custody, and scores in 
poor health to begin with, they say something is bound to 
happen.

  In a briefing with reporters, Marine Corps Brig. Gen. Michael R. 
Lehnert, the commander of the prison project, says, "We continue 
to work to improve living conditions for both the detainees and 
our security forces."

  Within a couple months, he says, the operation will move to 
another part of Guantanamo called Radio Range, where utilities 
are more readily available and cells will have cots, air 
conditioning and toilets. The general is awaiting congressional 
approval before building for Radio Range begins.

  
For now, with the camp at capacity, flights here have stopped.


   Zambia hails result

 



  LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the 
re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and 
called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the 
controversial result.

  "I am pleased to learn of the re-election of President Robert 
Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe," Mwanawasa said in a statement.

  "As chairman of the Organisation of African Unity and president 
of a friendly neighbour, I congratulate President Mugabe on his 
re-election," Mwanawasa said.

  Three of the 10 losing presidential candidates in Zambia's 
December 27 vote have petitioned the Supreme Court to nullify 
the results, charging that Mwanawasa won the election by fraud. 
-- Sapa-AFP




The Fall And Rise Of Hugo Chavez

 


Washington Times 
April 25, 2002 
Pg. 18

  
The Fall And Rise Of Hugo Chavez

  In Venezuela, the dust is finally settling after the dramatic 
turbulence of the past two weeks. President Hugo Chavez is once 
again at the helm of power, and the military has returned to its 
barracks. But there are many grieving Venezuelans who aren't 
quite at peace. Their loved ones were gunned down, first by 
sympathizers of Mr. Chavez and subsequently by supporters of the 
short-lived interim government.

  Mr. Chavez was ousted in a military coup on April 12 after 17 
persons were killed during an anti-Chavez protest, apparently by 
sharpshooters faithful to the president. Pedro Carmona, a 
powerful businessman, stepped into power on Friday but was 
forced to resign the next day. Following the coup, 40 persons, 
mostly Chavez supporters, were killed while protesting.

  A probe of what transpired should be in the offing. Mr. Chavez 
has placed his cronies in every democratic institution, from 
congress to the courts, and is expected to prevent any honest 
inquiry. So far, Mr. Chavez appears complicit in the initial 
wave of killings. According to taped radio conversations 
broadcast yesterday in Venezuela on radio and television, Mr. 
Chavez ordered tanks and troops to surround the presidential 
palace, as unarmed civilian protesters marched against him on 
April 11. The Chavez administration said it ordered the 
deployment to "prevent public order disturbances." Given the 
death toll, Mr. Chavez's claims seem rather flimsy.

  This is most unfortunate. Venezuela is this hemisphere's 
second-oldest democracy. At a time when democracy is losing 
currency in many countries, particularly Argentina, coups could 
be potentially destabilizing to the region. "We are happy to 
collectively have overcome the era of coup d'etats in the 
region, and when events in Venezuela took on the appearance of a 
military coup there was a reaction by everyone," said Brazil's 
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso. Mr. Cardoso's concerns are 
quite valid, but he has downplayed some of Mr. Chavez's more 
alarming faults.

  The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan 
and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of 
U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power. Indeed, 
after all the muscle-flexing, Mr. Chavez has little to offer the 
Venezuelan people. He has choked off foreign investment by 
doubling the royalty payments oil companies must pay to the 
government and by restricting corporate ownership on some oil 
projects to 49 percent. He has also alienated workers at his 
country's state-owned oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela, by 
replacing long-serving professionals with his supporters. In 
fact, Mr. Chavez consolidated his power by rewriting the 
country's constitution in 1999.

  Interestingly, Mr. Chavez initially rose to power in the 1990s 
because of the discontent with former President Carlos Andres 
Perez, who had ordered the military to shoot at crowds in 1989. 
And, while only time will tell if he would voluntarily give up 
power when his term in 2006, one thing is certain: A serious 
investigation of the massacre of April 2002 is certainly called 
for.


Mugabe wins poll, amid claims of rigging

 



  HARARE, March 13 (AFP) - Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert 
Mugabe swept to victory Wednesday in Presidential elections in a 
vote that challenger Morgan Tsvangirai declared was rigged and 
unacceptable.

  Registrar General Tobaiwa Mudede announced on state television 
that Mugabe was re-elected with 1,685,212 votes against 
1,258,758 votes for Tsvangirai, leader of the Movement for 
Democratic Change (MDC).

  `I ... therefore declare Robert Mugabe the winner for the office 
of the presidency of Zimbabwe,' Mudede said.

  Observers had warned that should the outcome be seen to have 
been rigged, violence could explode across the volatile southern 
African nation.

  As the results were being announced, about 100 heavily armed 
soldiers moved into Zimbabwe's second city Bulawayao and 
surrounded the MDC offices, where opposition officials had 
gathered.

  Defence Minister Sydney Sekeramayi has put security forces on 
the highest level of alert, according to state media.

  Police roadblocks were seen on the main roads leading to central 
Harare, security forces were patrolling the city and six police 
officers were stationed outside MDC headquarters.

  
Tsvangirai rejected Mugabe's election victory out of hand.

  `The election was massively rigged,' he told a packed press 
conference. `We therefore as MDC do not accept this result.'

  Foreign governments all but dismissed the outcome even before it 
was announced, threatening to leave Mugabe internationally 
isolated despite his victory.

  British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw cited `pretty strong' 
evidence that Mugabe has `stolen' Zimbabwe's vote, an outcome he 
said would have `enormous implications for the nature of our 
relationship with Zimbabwe.'

  US State Department spokeswoman Lynn Cassel said: `While we must 
wait for the final results, it is abundantly clear that this was 
a seriously flawed election.'

  The MDC leadership was due to meet later Wednesday to discuss 
the poll results, and Tsvangirai was due to address a media 
conference afterwards.

  `We have a national executive meeting ... where we will be 
looking at the figures and give the reaction of the party,' said 
David Coltart, an MDC MP.

  `To put it mildly the figures are very odd, with very low 
turnouts in the cities and massive ones in the rural areas, 
which is unprecedented in this country,' he said.

  Polling stations in Harare were reduced by 32 per cent in favour 
of an increase of voting outlets in rural areas, considered 
Mugabe's support base.

  Of 882,176 people registered to vote in Harare Province, 439,656 
or 49.8 per cent actually did so during the three days of 
polling that began Saturday and saw mile-long queues across the 
capital.

  The MDC, charging that the Mugabe government had followed a 
deliberate strategy of impeding the urban vote, went to the High 
Court and won an extra day of voting on Monday, but polls opened 
several hours late, and only an additional 24,000 votes were 
cast.

  The election is the hardest fought battle for Zimbabwe's top 
post since liberation war hero Mugabe took over after 
independence from Britain in 1980.

  `The election was preceded by months of government-orchestrated 
violence meant to intimidate voters (and) the opposition was 
repeatedly harassed and prevented from campaigning,' she said.

  Turnout across the southern African country was an estimated 66 
per cent in an election fraught by violence, intimidation and 
intense legal wrangling over civic rights and electoral rules.

  Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up 
the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General 
Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a 
smear tactic. Ncube, along with Tsvangirai and four other top 
party officials, had been accused last month of plotting to 
assassinate the President.

  The tumultuous campaign grabbed international headlines and 
sparked diplomatic rows that landed Mugabe with sanctions from 
the European Union and the United States. Violence has claimed 
at least 33 lives, mostly those of opposition supporters, since 
the start of the year.

  The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the 
`risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the 
election was seen to be rigged.




   Mugabe won polls unfairly says West

 



  President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe 
yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local 
monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African 
nations.

  Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, easily beaten by the 
veteran president according to official results, said Mugabe had 
stolen the vote through violence and intimidation and by 
preventing hundreds of thousands of people from voting.

  The US said the election, extending Mugabe's 22-year rule for 
another six years, was "fundamentally flawed". Zimbabwe had 
ignored its commitment to a free and fair poll.

  Two State Department officials said Washington aimed to impose 
financial restrictions against any assets in the US held by 
Mugabe and senior members of his government but could not say 
when they would take effect.

  A deep split appeared between Western nations and African 
countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe, 
calling the election legitimate.

  Registrar-General Tobaiwa Mudede declared Mugabe the winner 
after results were in from all 120 constituencies. He said the 
former guerilla won his fifth term as leader after taking 
1,685,212 votes against 1,258,401 for Tsvangirai.

  The opposition leader said his Movement for Democratic Change 
(MDC) would not accept the result.

  "The election results ... do not reflect the true will of the 
people of Zimbabwe and are consequently illegitimate," he said.

  Norwegian and local observers said thousands of people, mostly 
in opposition strongholds, had been prevented from voting.

  But observers from South Africa, Namibia and Nigeria all said 
Mugabe's re-election was legitimate.

  South Africa and Nigeria together with Australia comprise a 
special Commonwealth group given the power to take measures 
against Zimbabwe if the election is deemed not to have been free 
and fair.

  Zimbabwe security forces went on high alert and erected 
roadblocks around Harare after the result was announced.

  The MDC said dozens of heavily armed soldiers had surrounded its 
office in the second city of Bulawayo. Small groups of armed 
riot police moved into Harare townships loyal to Tsvangirai.

  Several hundred Mugabe supporters danced in celebration and 
carried mock coffins for Tsvangirai in two Harare townships. One 
of the coffins was draped in the US flag.

  
Mugabe's government dismissed criticism of the election.

  Information Minister Jonathan Moyo said the result was a blow to 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair whom Mugabe accuses of 
sponsoring Tsvangirai.

  The former colonial power Britain said that Mugabe had held on 
to power through a "systematic campaign of violence and 
intimidation". Forward this article to a Colleague, Associate or 
Friend



Copyright @ 2002, Gulf Daily News -




   US-Japan climate talks end

 



  Representatives from Japan and the United States have finished 
two days of talks Tuesday on climate change in Tokyo.

  They discussed ways of co-operating in the science and 
technology fields to prevent global warming.

  The meeting was the first between the two countries since 
President George Bush unveiled a new US plan calling for 
voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions based on economic 
growth rather than mandatory targets.

  At the start of the meeting, the US said it would promote 
research and development into climate change.

  
Japan says it still intends to ratify the Kyoto protocol.

  President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected 
the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it 
hindered US economic growth.

  
From the newsroom of the BBC World Service


Copyright @ BBC


Zimbabwe's rigged election

 



  The election this week in Zimbabwe was an ugly travesty from 
which all of southern Africa will suffer. Voters lined up for 
hours at polling stations, many of them in vain. Supporters of 
the main opposition candidate were intimidated and beaten. Then 
the long-serving, increasingly tyrannical president, Robert 
Mugabe, was declared the winner. International observers called 
the process deeply flawed, and the Bush administration has 
refused to recognize the declared results.

  Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa 
and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's 
victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize 
the results of a rigged election. By failing to hold firm they 
not only damage their diplomatic credibility, but also ignore 
the consequences for nearby African states of Mugabe's misrule. 
These include explosive political frustration, a swelling tide 
of desperate refugees and a growing reluctance by foreign 
companies and donors to invest in the region. Washington and 
other Western governments may now strengthen the current mild 
sanctions against Zimbabwe. These steps would be far more 
effective if they were joined by major African states.

  Mugabe, who led Zimbabwe's liberation struggle against white 
minority rule in the late 1970's, has systematically wrecked his 
country's economy and its freedoms to prolong his 22-year-old 
hold on power. Zimbabwe should be an economic beacon, not a 
basket case. It is blessed with fertile agricultural land, and 
during the first dozen years of Mugabe's rule it was relatively 
prosperous and free.

  That picture changed radically in the mid-1990's when Mugabe 
shifted onto a highly destructive course. He incited violent 
land seizures that have taken a disastrous toll on agricultural 
investment and production and launched a broad assault on 
journalistic freedom and judicial independence. This campaign 
has been carried out with help from a small but loyal core of 
former liberation fighters turned thugs. Thugs and fraud cannot 
keep the 78-year-old Mugabe in power forever. Zimbabwe's 
recovery will have to wait for his departure.


Copyright @ 2002 the International Herald Tribune All Rights 
Reserved




Mugabe Wins Despite Biased Propaganda

 



  
TEHRAN TIMES INTL. DESK

  TEHRAN -- President Robert Mugabe easily won Zimbabwe's election 
on Wednesday despite biased propaganda unleashed against him by 
some Western countries, accusing him of being unfair towards the 
opposition.

  Results announced by Registrar-General Tobaiwa Mudede at 0800 
GMT showed Mugabe with 1,634,382 votes, well past the 50 percent 
of ballots cast that he needed to extend his 22-year rule for 
six more year.

  His challenger, former trade unionist Morgan Tsvangirai, trailed 
almost half a million votes behind. Mudede said 3.1 million 
people voted in the three-day election.

  There were fears of a violent reaction from Tsvangirai's 
supporters, and security forces were put on high alert and 
police put up road blocks on approach roads to the capital 
Harare.

  Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election 
had been stolen. Canberra is a member of a Three-Nation 
Commonwealth task force monitoring the election.

  Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once 
prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically 
stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters, 
Reuters reported.

  Mugabe's government has dismissed criticism of the poll, which 
Information Minister Jonathan Moyo called "exemplary".

  Western countries queued up to condemn the election in which the 
78-year-old president faced his first real challenge.

  The United States, condemning the reduction of polling stations 
in opposition urban strongholds, said the election was 
"seriously flawed" and riddled with irregularities.

  Australia and Britain led an unsuccessful call for commonwealth 
sanctions against Mugabe before the election.

  New Zealand said on Wednesday it was ready to impose sanctions 
against Zimbabwe if the commonwealth decided not to suspend the 
country after the vote.




Many fear violence after Zimbabwe vote

 



  HARARE, Zimbabwe Wellington Chinyama sat down in a barber's 
chair, unfolded his newspaper and without glancing up asked the 
young man trimming his hair the question that seems to be on 
virtually everyone's mind here: "So Joseph, have you prepared 
yourself for Zimbabwe's civil war?"

  As Zimbabweans go to the polls this weekend to re-elect or oust 
Robert Mugabe, the only leader the country has ever known, the 
question of who will win the election seems almost secondary to 
how the loser and his followers will respond.

  Surveys show the challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai, a trade union 
leader, ahead of Mugabe. But a surge in political violence and 
accusations that the governing party changed election laws to 
rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans, 
election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political 
party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final 
tally.

  "It does not take a vivid imagination to envision a scenario on 
the ground where either rioters or the military take to the 
streets in the days to come," an African diplomat said.

  Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government 
officials and military leaders that they would not allow this 
former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political 
party, the Movement for Democratic Change. In a television 
interview broadcast the other day, Didymus Mutasa, a spokesman 
for Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party, said that he and other 
veterans of the country's independence war found the prospect of 
a Tsvangirai government intolerable.

  "People have said being ruled by the MDC is being ruled by Ian 
Smith," Mutasa said, referring to the prime minister of 
white-ruled Rhodesia, as the country was known before gaining 
independence in 1980. "Under these circumstances, if there were 
to be a coup, we would support it very definitely."

  At least 34 people have died in political violence this year, 
almost all of them supporters of the Movement for Democratic 
Change. State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's 
government of numerous human rights violations during the 
election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF 
officials.

  A newspaper reported that Mugabe had put the armed forces on 
"high alert" and had recalled soldiers from neighboring Congo, 
where they have been deployed in that country's civil war. 
Police Commissioner Augustine Chihuri denied the reports.

  Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest 
between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to 
remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless 
young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages 
and unemployment.

  "If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that 
people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said 
Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter. "But if the MDC 
wins, I believe Mugabe will announce martial law, throw 
Tsvangirai in jail for plotting to kill him and send the army 
into the streets."

  Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other 
officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting 
to assassinate Mugabe. That charge is based largely on a heavily 
edited videotape in which Tsvangirai refers to the "elimination" 
of Mugabe.

  Tsvangirai was responding to a question posed by a Canadian 
publicist with whom he was meeting and who subsequently signed a 
contract with ZANU-PF. Political analysts say the charges may 
have laid the groundwork for Mugabe to jail Tsvangirai as a 
last-ditch effort to stay in power should he lose the election.

  But that outcome is certainly not a foregone conclusion. 
Opposition officials say that 22 of their polling agents have 
been abducted in the past week, and a surge in violent attacks 
in swing districts could persuade enough opposition supporters 
to vote for ZANU-PF to ensure Mugabe's victory.

  In addition, governing party officials have revised election 
laws and procedures in a manner that could change the outcome of 
the vote, according to independent election observers.

  ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend 
to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas 
believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of 
stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the 
opposition. Observers say that could produce long voting lines 
and discourage some Tsvangirai supporters from casting ballots.

  ZANU-PF election officials also plan to use civil service 
employees to monitor the vote-counting and bar independent 
monitors from nonprofit organizations from assisting in such 
routine tasks as transporting ballot boxes to counting stations. 
A residency requirement introduced last month bans registered 
voters from casting ballots if they cannot provide leases or 
utility bills in their names. That, according to foreign 
diplomats and Tsvangirai supporters, could disenfranchise 
hundreds of thousands of young opposition supporters who live 
with their parents.

  "Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this 
election," said John Makumbe, a political science professor at 
the University of Zimbabwe.

  Tsvangirai said at a news conference Thursday night that if he 
won the election, he would not prosecute Mugabe. That could ease 
pressure on Mugabe to remain in power to avoid prosecution for 
his government's attack in the 1980s in Matabeleland, the home 
of the Ndebele tribe, which at the time posed the most 
significant threat to his leadership. An estimate of the number 
of people killed in the operation ranges from 10,000 to 20,000.


Copyright @ 2002 the International Herald Tribune All Rights 
Reserved




   Harsh detention for Afghan prisoners

 



  Taleban and al-Qaeda prisoners flown from Afghanistan to an 
American naval base in the Caribbean are being held in tough 
conditions of detention.

  A temporary detention centre called Camp X-Ray has been set up 
at the base in Guantanamo Bay, an isolated US outpost on the 
edge of Fidel Castro's Cuba.

  The prisoners are being housed in cells measuring 1.8 by 2.4 
metres (six feet by eight feet) with open, chain-link walls, a 
concrete floor and wooden roof.

  They face intense interrogation by US officials anxious to track 
down Osama Bin Laden, the alleged mastermind behind the 11 
September suicide attacks on New York and Washington.

  The US authorities have not granted the detainees 
prisoner-of-war status, meaning they are not protected by the 
Geneva Convention.

  Washington wants military tribunals to try the prisoners, and 
the cases are expected to be heard outside the US.

  As the base is located outside sovereign territory, the 
prisoners have no legal rights under the US constitution, and no 
right of appeal to federal courts.

  
'Are they kennels?'

  Jeffrey Kofman, an American journalist who has visited the base, 
said the facility was "very, very minimal".

  The cells had concrete floors, wooden roofs and wire mesh walls. 
Prisoners had a foam mat to sleep on, two towels - one for 
washing, the other to use as a prayer mat - and some form of 
chamber pot, he said.

  "It was a far more bares bones facility than frankly I expected 
to see. They say they will be holding the detainees in cells, 
but really they are cages...

  "One person said: 'Are they kennels?', to which one of the 
military staff in charge said: 'No they're not kennels, they are 
cells, and they're within the bounds of the Geneva Convention. 
What we are operating is humane treatment, but we're not 
offering comfort'."

  
International concern

  The human rights group Amnesty International voiced concern 
about the "cages" used for accommodation, saying they would 
"fall below minimum standards for humane treatment".

  The first group to arrive - 20 prisoners described by US 
military officials as "the worst elements of al-Qaeda and the 
Taleban" - wore goggles covered with tape and had their hands 
tied. Some also wore leg shackles.

  They wore surgical masks as some prisoners had tested positive 
for tuberculosis and at least one prisoner was sedated.

  They will spend most of their time separated, although they will 
be allowed out of their cells in small groups for meals, showers 
and some recreation.

  
They will be allowed to pray according to their faith.

  
Mosquitoes

  The camp gets chilly at night and there are swarms of 
mosquitoes.

  The base - known by US servicemen as "Gitmo"- is surrounded by 
mangrove swamps, salt marshes and dense bush - and the sea is 
shark-infested.

  The camp perimeters - lit up at night - has watchtowers and two 
fences topped with razor wire constantly patrolled by heavily 
armed marines.

  
At night the camp is lit up with halogen floodlights.

  Members of a movement that tried to prevent women working may be 
disconcerted to find that some of their guards are women.

  "We have no intention of making it comfortable," Marine 
Brigadier-General Michael Lehnert told Reuters news agency. "It 
will be humane."

  Hundreds of marines and military police have been flown to 
Guantanamo Bay to expand the compound to house up to 2,000 
prisoners.

  American marines landed in Guantanamo during the 
Spanish-American war in 1898, and the base was established under 
a 1903 treaty.

  After Fidel Castro led the Communists to power in Cuba in 1959, 
then US President Dwight Eisenhower refused to relinquish the 
base despite strong objections from Havana.

  Although Washington continues to pay the rent - set 100 years 
ago at 2,000 gold coins a year, and now worth about $4,000 - Mr 
Castro refuses to cash the cheques.

  Cuban Frontier Battalion troops continue to watch their US 
counterparts along the 28-kilometre fence, but tension has 
diminished since the end of the Cold War.

  
Hunt continues

  American officials have named al-Qaeda and Taleban leaders 
killed or captured as frustration grows that some senior Taleban 
figures are reportedly slipping through the net.

  Among those who have not been questioned by the US military are 
three former Taleban ministers who turned themselves into the 
new Afghan authorities - only to be allowed to return to their 
homes.

  The most important is former Justice Minister Mullah Nuruddin 
Turabi - known to be close to Taleban leader Mullah Omar - 
former Defence Minister Mullah Ubaidullah and former Industry 
Minister Mullah Saadudin.

  US officials are eager to question the three, who they believe 
may have vital clues about the whereabouts of Mullah Omar and 
Osama Bin Laden.

  The hunt continues for Bin Laden himself and Mullah Omar, who is 
believed to have escaped by motorbike as thousands of Afghan 
soldiers closed in on his suspected hideout.

  Also on the wanted list are many more of Bin Laden's top 
lieutenants who are believed to have evaded capture. They 
include Ayman al-Zawahri, the Egyptian Islamic Jihad leader who 
is Bin Laden's close adviser and personal doctor.


Copyright @ BBC


Bush's Policy on Argentina Signals Shift in Approach

 



  WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 - Seven years ago this month, President Bill 
Clinton's economic advisers told him Mexico was hours away from 
economic default and perhaps chaos on the streets. Mr. Clinton 
ordered an unpopular multibillion-dollar bailout, over the 
objections of Congress, but with the support of a prominent 
Republican governor, George W. Bush of Texas.

  When Argentina barreled toward a similar default in recent 
weeks, it was Mr. Bush who had to make the bailout call - and 
his decision was to let Argentina suffer the consequences of its 
own economic mismanagement. His aides argue that the 
circumstances were somewhat different: Mexico appeared ready to 
make reforms but needed time and cash, while Argentina had not 
heeded repeated warnings that its policies were leading to 
financial disaster.

  Still, Mr. Bush's reaction to the biggest international economic 
crisis so far in his presidency is a telling example of a new - 
and perhaps risky - approach to the kind of national economic 
bankruptcies that dominated Washington's dealings with the 
world's emerging markets in the late 1990's.

  The Clinton administration, fearing "economic contagion," was 
willing to back loans to teetering governments in Thailand, 
Indonesia, South Korea and Russia. But Mr. Bush's aides have 
adopted a policy some call "tough love," meant to reverse the 
expectation in capitals around the world that if you are big 
enough, or strategically important, Washington will always find 
a way to prevent fiscal and political collapse.

  Mr. Bush promised just such a policy during his presidential 
campaign. But the first time his approach was tested, when 
Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national 
security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a 
well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the 
medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed. Washington 
joined in the bailout.

  "It's fair to say," one senior administration official noted 
during the last week, "that while we have been clear, we haven't 
always been consistent."

  The hard line on Argentina, White House and Treasury officials 
say, was calculated to send the message that under the Bush 
administration, the United States would be a reluctant financial 
firefighter and that the markets should not bet on a bailout. It 
is a message that Mr. Bush's aides said in interviews this week 
that they hoped would force officials of developing countries 
and foreign investors to work out their problems without relying 
as much on huge aid packages from the International Monetary 
Fund and from Washington, which became commonplace after Mexico.

  "It is a different approach, but we needed a different 
approach," said John B. Taylor, undersecretary of the Treasury 
for international affairs. "We want to follow a policy that does 
not bail out bondholders and improves the market over all."

  
There are other new aspects to the Bush policy.

  Treasury officials in the Clinton era never shied away from 
dispensing a steady stream of advice to countries on the 
condition that they would have to meet to get Western aid. In 
contrast, during the Argentina crisis, Treasury Secretary Paul 
H. O'Neill was nearly invisible, rarely commenting on the 
country's approaching default, or the violent protests that led 
to the resignation of President Fernando de la R?  Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F. 
to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the 
fund's demands for fiscal restraint. And now Washington's 
message to Argentina's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, is 
straightforward: Come up with a workable plan, and then we will 
talk.

  "President Bush never talked about specific steps he expected 
the Argentine government to take," said one White House official 
familiar with Mr. Bush's periodic calls and letters to Mr. de la 
R?d the series of his successors in recent weeks. "You won't 
find this administration having those kinds of conversations. 
Argentina has to come up with what works for them, and if we can 
support it, we will."

  Mr. Bush's approach carries considerable risk. There is every 
possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the 
free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the 
country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support 
over the last decade. Already there is considerable doubt that 
Argentina will now agree to the kind of hemispheric free-trade 
agreement that Mr. Bush himself, with Mr. de la R? his side, 
said last year was a major goal of his administration.

  Both the I.M.F. and the United States, the fund's largest 
shareholder, have come under some sharp criticism for denying 
new loans to Argentina after previously approving aid to the 
country. The last emergency loan was put together in August, 
with Mr. O'Neill's close supervision.

  The critics of Mr. Bush's decision to pull the plug on aid argue 
that the I.M.F. and the Bush administration were callous for 
abandoning an ally at a sensitive moment. And some argue that 
both the Clinton and Bush administrations should have acted 
sooner to steer Argentina away from its doomed efforts to defend 
a 1-to-1 peg of its peso to the dollar.

  But administration and I.M.F. officials respond that they aided 
Argentina for as long as they thought there was a reasonable 
chance that its political leaders were serious about reform. 
They pulled the plug, one senior administration official said, 
"only when it became clear that the collapse was going to happen 
sooner or later, and there was no use spending billions to get a 
few more weeks before the inevitable happened."

  Some longtime critics of the fund applauded the Bush 
administration's stance. Both left-wing anti-globalization 
activists and some conservative economists have argued that the 
fund became too interventionist during the Clinton years. That 
allowed investors to make reckless bets on the assumption that 
lending agencies would rescue them when things went wrong.

  "I am hopeful that we're in transition to a world in which 
countries and lenders learn more about risk," said Allan H. 
Meltzer of Carnegie Mellon University, who headed a 
Congressional panel two years ago that advocated sweeping 
changes at the I.M.F. and the World Bank. "You can't just keep 
throwing money at these problems and hope they will go away."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


Argentina's Chaos Raises New Doubts on Monetary Fund

 



  WASHINGTON, Dec. 21 - The deadly riots in Argentina, the 
collapse of its government and another multibillion dollar 
bailout gone awry have raised fresh questions about the 
effectiveness of the International Monetary Fund and the 
financial policies of the United States, the fund's leading 
shareholder.

  Latin American and European government leaders today joined 
protesters in Buenos Aires, Wall Street traders and financial 
experts in putting at least part of the blame for Argentina's 
problems on the lending agency and the Clinton and Bush 
administrations.

  Some say the monetary fund showed callousness by failing to give 
new aid to Argentina early this month, as the country's economic 
program, designed with I.M.F. approval, was forcing painful 
austerity measures on its citizens. Others say the fund made the 
opposite mistake, repeatedly offering loans to Argentina despite 
indications that the country's policies had become unworkable, 
delaying the day of reckoning.

  These criticisms, even if contradictory, increase pressure on 
the I.M.F. and the Bush administration to articulate a clear 
policy toward financial rescue efforts, which often come under 
fire even when they are judged successful.

  Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill came into office publicly 
denouncing multibillion dollar bailouts, saying that either they 
fail outright or they allow foreign governments to get away with 
bad policymaking and investors to get away with bad bets.

  In practice, however, the Bush administration has yet to take a 
clear stance on such bailouts and has made international 
financial policy a low priority.

  Peru's finance minister, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, complained today 
that the fund bungled its dealings with Argentina by adopting 
inconsistent policies that were at turns passive and inflexible. 
"The fund is partly to blame for this because the fund did not 
sound the alarm in time and then took a very hard line when 
things were incredibly difficult," he told Peruvian radio.

  Hubert Vedrine, the French foreign minister, assailed the I.M.F. 
for abandoning a longtime client and imposing "demands that have 
been excessive or at the wrong time." The French, who like the 
United States are significant fund shareholders, have called on 
the lending agency to step up its involvement to help Argentina 
recover.

  After some hand-wringing about jeopardizing the money of 
American "plumbers and carpenters," Mr. O'Neill supported a 
multibillion loan for Argentina in August. He has also backed 
two large rescue packages for Turkey, a strategic ally that has 
faced tough financial problems.

  When Argentina's crisis worsened in recent weeks, Bush 
administration officials did not take a firm position, allowing 
the I.M.F. to make the call on withholding additional loans, 
people involved in the fund's deliberations said.

  Even the harshest critics of the I.M.F. put most of the blame 
for Argentina's current plight on a succession of governments in 
Buenos Aires. But many say the monetary fund should have called 
government officials to account sooner.

  Argentina adopted a strict fixed- currency regime and overhauled 
its banks in the early 1990's. It tamed inflation and became, 
for a spell, a glowing economic success story.

  But subsequent governments allowed spending to grow out of 
control, building up a foreign debt that became impossible to 
maintain. Argentina also fell into a deep recession four years 
ago. The government beseeched the I.M.F. for help to stay 
solvent as it tried to work through its problems.

  Backed by both the Clinton and Bush administrations, the I.M.F. 
twice came to the rescue, beginning late last year.

  The idea was to help the country defend its fixed currency, 
which had become a political touchstone, while avoiding default 
on $132 billion in foreign debt, allowing it to continue good 
relations with foreign investors.

  The terms of the aid program were wrenching. The government 
agreed to slash spending during a deep recession to increase the 
chances of making debt payments on schedule.

  "If Argentina got its core economic policies right, it would 
have avoided this problem," said Charles Calomiris, a finance 
and economics professor at Columbia University who has been 
sounding the alarm about Argentina for months. "But the I.M.F. 
and both the Clinton and Bush administrations let them stay in 
denial. They all wanted the problem to fall on someone else's 
watch."

  It is always a tough call to cut off aid, Mr. Calomiris said. 
But he argued that by delaying, the fund helped Argentina dig 
itself into a deeper hole.

  "If you do not show leadership and make it happen early, then 
you face a catastrophe," he said.

  Michael Mussa, the I.M.F.'s chief economist until last spring, 
said the fund was justified in providing aid to Argentina late 
last year.

  But he said that he disagreed with the decision by the fund and 
the Bush administration to continue the aid program in August, 
when he said the situation in Argentina had likely deteriorated 
beyond repair.

  "The fund made a mistake in not saying no in August," Mr. Mussa 
said. "The situation might have been more controllable then."

  The difficulty, of course, is that such calls are much easier to 
make in hindsight. Mr. Mussa acknowledged that even when the 
political and economic situation in Argentina was more stable, a 
move to delay debt payments or devalue the currency ran the risk 
of rattling financial markets and even causing a financial 
implosion in the region.

  In contrast, by watching Argentina wrestle with its finances 
over a period of months, financial markets anticipated the 
possibility of a default. The chances of contagion are now 
viewed as minimal.

  Moreover, it is difficult to place blame for Argentina's 
economic program squarely on the fund when much of the policy 
was designed by Argentina itself, sometimes over the objections 
of the fund's economists.

  At an August meeting at I.M.F. headquarters, fund officials told 
Domingo Cavallo, Argentina's economy minister, that the country 
would be better off delaying debt payments.

  Argentina, however, was determined to pay its debts in full and 
keep its fixed currency in place, fulfilling what it viewed as a 
promise to its citizens and creditors who had been told for 
years that pesos were as good as dollars. It outlined strict 
fiscal policies that it claimed would allow it to meet its 
obligations.

  But by December, as Mr. Cavallo resorted to freezing bank 
accounts and raiding pension funds to find enough hard currency 
to make debt payments, collapse looked imminent. The fund 
decided to suspend aid for a program that appeared to have 
little chance of success.

  Though there were unique elements, Argentina's demise seems 
certain to add to the doubts about the wisdom of bailouts, 
doubts that have grown in recent years. Nearly every major 
financial rescue effort, including those in Mexico, Thailand, 
Indonesia, South Korea, Russia and Brazil, has come under 
intense scrutiny from the left and the right, albeit for widely 
varying reasons.

  Fund officials say privately that they cannot avoid financial 
bailouts altogether. The lesson of Argentina, they say, is that 
they need to find a way to say no before the people they are 
supposed to be helping take to the streets.



Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


Bush Plan Expected to Slow, Not Halt, Gas Emission Rise

 



  President Bush is set to announce a plan today calling for 
voluntary measures to slow but not halt the growth in emissions 
of heat-trapping gases linked to global warming, White House 
officials said last night.

  The climate proposal is Mr. Bush's response to the Kyoto 
Protocol, the 1997 treaty accepted but not yet ratified by all 
other large industrialized countries, which would require cuts 
in such emissions by 2010 to well below their 1990 levels. Mr. 
Bush rejected the treaty last March, calling its targets 
arbitrary, its schedule too costly to meet and its terms, which 
are not easily applied in large developing countries, unfair.

  The program he is to announce this afternoon would slow the rate 
of growth in emissions in relation to the growth of the overall 
economy. It would use $4.6 billion in tax credits over the next 
five years to encourage companies and individuals to limit those 
emissions.

  Utilities, for example, would get incentives to build 
power-generating windmills; homeowners would get new tax credits 
for buying solar panels or more efficient cars.

  The one thing the climate policy would not do is require 
anything of anybody, sticking with the position Mr. Bush has 
held for more than a year on the climate issue: that firm limits 
on the so-called greenhouse gases would drag down the economy.

  The administration's approach, he plans to say, is based "on the 
common-sense idea that sustainable economic growth is the key to 
environmental progress - because it is growth that provides the 
resources for investment in clean technologies," according to an 
advance text.

  On another emissions issue unrelated to climate, aides said Mr. 
Bush would call today for mandatory restrictions on three other 
kinds of pollutants from power plants: mercury, sulfur dioxide 
and nitrogen oxides. In contrast to proposals by 
environmentalists and many Democrats, however, the plan would 
delay such cuts until 2010 or later.

  Last night, administration officials called the voluntary 
approach on climate the most reasonable path for the time being. 
A senior administration official did say, however, that if 
insufficient progress was being made by 2012, there could be a 
move toward some kind of limits. "If we're not making progress 
toward our goal," he said, "we will be considering a full range 
of programs."

  Some environmental groups criticized this kind of checkup, 
saying it puts off any measuring of progress until well after 
Mr. Bush is out of office.

  Under the administration's proposed target, the growth rate of 
emissions of carbon dioxide would drop nearly 18 percent by 2012 
- to 151 metric tons for each $1 million in gross domestic 
product, from the current level of 183 metric tons.

  But environmental groups sharply criticized this kind of 
yardstick, saying that it merely reflects an existing trend 
toward using energy more efficiently and adding that as long as 
the economy grows, this would not result in emissions 
reductions.

  Alluding to the date of the speech, Jennifer Morgan, the climate 
policy director for the World Wildlife Fund, called it "a 
valentine to the coal and oil industry that will allow emissions 
to increase without any time frame, eternally."

  One provision of the new climate plan would be to greatly expand 
a program encouraging businesses to monitor and report their 
emissions of greenhouse gases. Those that participate, 
voluntarily, would gain credits that might eventually be used in 
a trading scheme similar to that used for other pollution.

  White House officials said this could prompt industries to 
change behavior, the same way similar reporting requirements 
instituted in the late 1980's resulted in big cuts in releases 
of toxic chemicals.

  Philip E. Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, 
a private lobbying group, criticized this approach, saying: "The 
president's global warming proposal appears to be another 
faith-based initiative: we should have faith that major 
corporations will line up to volunteer cuts in their carbon 
pollution. That approach has failed for a decade now, since the 
president's father set up the first voluntary program."

  And Myron Ebell, a climate policy expert at the Competitive 
Enterprise Institute, a private group whose free- market views 
are frequently embraced by industry, criticized the idea from 
the opposite ideological direction.

  "What looks like voluntary will actually be coercive," Mr. Ebell 
said.

  The president is leaving for Asia on Saturday and has been under 
pressure to present a climate plan before visiting Japan. Japan, 
which has avoided criticizing the administration over its 
rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush 
is concerned about the issue. Several experts on the treaty said 
that his decision to make the announcement now was very likely 
influenced by this situation.

  The proposed plan on nongreenhouse emissions from power plants - 
mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides - would impose 
mandatory limits but would allow companies to exceed them by 
buying credits from others that reduce pollution below required 
levels.

  There would be no similar limits on power plants' emissions of 
carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. In the face of lobbying 
from coal companies and utilities, Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign 
pledge last March to control the four plant emissions together 
and has shown no signs of reconsidering that idea.

  As hints of the emerging plan circulated in e-mail messages by 
environmental groups and conservative groups, it appeared that 
no one was particularly pleased.

  An official at an energy company that had been pressing the 
White House to revise power plant rules said the best news was 
that there was something finally on the table to discuss.

  "At least they're coming out with something," the official said. 
"It may not be what everyone wants, but it recognizes that the 
Senate is going to deal with climate on its power plant bill."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


Rumsfeld Defends U.S. Treatment of Detainees in Cuba

 



  WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over 
the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of 
Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct 
at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless 
armchair hyperbole.

  "I am telling you what I believe in every inch of my body to be 
the truth, and I have spent a lot of time on secure video with 
the people down there," he told reporters, referring to the 
United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where 158 
prisoners from the war in Afghanistan are being jailed. "I 
haven't found a single scrap of any kind of information that 
suggests that anyone has been treated anything other than 
humanely."

  Mr. Rumsfeld spoke in an unusual briefing that stretched over an 
hour in an attempt, he said, to "tap down some of this 
hyperbole." It was prompted by a rising tide of international 
criticism after the Defense Department released photographs over 
the weekend that showed some of the prisoners kneeling before 
their captors, their legs in shackles, their hands bound in 
manacles, their mouths covered by surgical masks and their eyes 
blinded by large goggles with black tape.

  His comments came as criticism swelled from abroad. Critics said 
the United States was using sensory deprivation and other 
psychological control techniques to weaken the prisoners so that 
interrogations would be more fruitful. The International 
Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not 
publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United 
States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against 
making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures, 
which were published worldwide.

  Amnesty International sought access to the prisoners in 
Guantanamo and said they should be allowed to have lawyers.

  "Keeping prisoners incommunicado, sensory deprivation, the use 
of unnecessary restraint and the humiliation of people through 
tactics such as shaving them are all classic techniques employed 
to break the spirit of individuals ahead of interrogation," the 
organization said.

  Several governments joined the chorus, saying the prisoners 
should be granted prisoner of war status under the Geneva 
Convention. Such status would accord them the highest level of 
protections.

  Javier Solana, the European Union foreign policy chief, said 
that despite the Sept. 11 atrocities, "changing our values and 
our way of life would be terrorism's first victory." The 
Netherlands also urged Washington to recognize the detainees as 
prisoners of war, saying, "In the fight, we need to uphold our 
norms and values."

  While debate raged elsewhere, Britain and Spain supported the 
United States. Prime Minister Tony Blair's office said the three 
British prisoners at the detention center, called Camp X-Ray, 
"had no complaints about their treatment." Spanish Foreign 
Minister Josep Pique said the Spanish government "does not have 
the slightest doubt regarding the position of the U.S. 
government."

  The warden at Camp X-Ray, Col. Terry Carrico, said he was 
determined at all times to maintain what he called "positive 
control" over the prisoners. Bill Nash, a retired Army major 
general and senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, 
said this amounted to "imposing on them a psychological sense of 
isolation, domination and futility, and trying to establish the 
conditions by which you can then reward them for information, as 
oppose to punish them."

  Mr. Rumsfeld said it was "probably unfortunate" that the 
photographs were released, at least without an explanation. He 
said the prisoners had been photographed in a holding area just 
before their restraints were removed and they were put in their 
cages.

  "If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said. 
But he argued that whenever prisoners, especially those who are 
dangerous and suicidal, are transported, it only makes sense to 
lock them in restraints. "When they are being moved from place 
to place, will they be restrained in a way so that they are less 
likely to be able to kill an American soldier? You bet. Is it 
inhumane to do that? No. Would it be stupid to do anything else? 
Yes."

  It is not clear why the United States has not officially 
designated the detainees as prisoners of war, especially since 
Mr. Rumsfeld said they are essentially being treated as such.

  "They're in legal limbo," said Michael F. Noone, professor of 
military law at Catholic University. "The United States has to 
get moving on screening these people and determining whether or 
not they're P.O.W.'s. There is no explanation for the delay."

  Mr. Rumsfeld said the Pentagon's clear priority with the 
prisoners was to extract information from them to prevent future 
attacks. "These people are committed terrorists," he said. "We 
are keeping them off the street and out of the airlines and out 
of nuclear power plants and out of ports across this country and 
across other countries."

  And yet, officials at Guantanamo have said that no interrogation 
has taken place on the base and that the prisoners do not have 
lawyers.

  Asked what benefit the United States gets by not classifying the 
captives as prisoners of war, Mr. Rumsfeld said, "I don't know 
enough of the legal technicalities to answer your question. I 
know that the process of gathering the intelligence information 
has not been concluded."

  Mr. Rumsfeld said one of the complicating factors was that the 
Geneva Conventions give protection to prisoners from countries 
but not from terrorist organizations, like Al Qaeda, to which 
some of the prisoners apparently belong. "To give standing under 
a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a 
country is something that I think some of the lawyers who did 
not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent," 
he said.

  Officials have said the prisoners come from a range of 
countries, - Britain, Yemen, China, Saudi Arabia and Australia 
among them - and that has also complicated the legal picture.

  In Los Angeles, a federal district judge questioned today 
whether he had the authority to consider a challenge to the 
detention of the prisoners in Cuba.

  "I have grave doubts about whether I have jurisdiction," said 
the judge, A. Howard Matz. He spoke at a hearing on a petition 
filed on Sunday by a group of lawyers, clerics and professors 
who demand that the detainees be identified, taken before a 
court and told of the charges against them.



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


More Prisoners Detained in Guantanamo Bay Join Hunger Strike

 



  Strike Triggered by a TurbanAccording to military sources at the 
U.S. base, the hunger striker was first triggered on Wednesday 
when the guard took the turban off the detainee's head while he 
was still praying.

  The sources argued that it was against the rules of the prison 
because the turban could be used to conceal a weapon.

  Bush Criticized for Treating Detainees InhumanelyAs more inmates 
joined the hunger strike, some of them reportedly chanted 
rhythmically on Thursday. Prison officials have reportedly 
strengthened the already heavy security at the prison for 
precautions.

  The Bush administration has been under international criticism 
for not treating the detainees humanely. It recently bowed to 
international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status 
of prisoner of war but still refused to cover al Qaeda prisoners 
with the same treatment.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved


U.S. Closely Monitoring Situation in Argentina

 



  The Bush administration was closely monitoring the situation in 
Argentina where escalating economic crisis led to a wave of 
bloody street violence and looting, the White House said on 
Thursday.

  "Argentina is a valued ally and friend, and the United States is 
monitoring developments in Argentina. We are concerned about the 
events," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters at a 
regular news briefing.

  Argentine President Fernando De la Rua declared a national state 
of siege Wednesday night and ordered additional security forces 
into the streets to control violence that left at least six 
people dead and hundreds wounded or arrested. It was Argentina's 
worst unrest in a decade.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved


Angry at Vote, Commonwealth Bars Zimbabwe

 



  LONDON, March 19 - Flanked by the presidents of South Africa and 
Nigeria, Prime Minister John Howard of Australia today announced 
a yearlong suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth, a group 
of 54 nations, mostly former British colonies. The unusual step 
was meant to punish President Robert Mugabe for his stewardship 
of elections this month that were widely criticized outside 
Africa as rigged.

  The two African leaders, Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and 
Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, maintained a cryptic silence while 
Mr. Howard spoke, endorsing the decision by their presence at a 
news conference but avoiding embroilment in a debate over 
whether they now view Mr. Mugabe's presidency as illegitimate.

  While less than an expulsion, the move still deepened the 
diplomatic isolation of Zimbabwe, which has already been 
battered by political violence, hunger, economic decline and the 
threat of labor unrest. It means Zimbabwean officials will be 
barred from meetings held by the Commonwealth, an organization 
that carries some cachet as an important club bridging the 
north-south divide.

  The suspension was decided by the three men, who met as a 
committee charged with deciding the Commomwealth's response. The 
decision, made at the headquarters in Marlborough House, has 
left two of the men facing an acute dilemma.

  Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo - both of whose countries have under 
past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth - 
are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was 
a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to 
democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration. 
Mr. Howard was chairman of the three-nation committee.

  The move avoids an open rift between its majority members in 
Africa and Asia, some of which have tended to side with Mr. 
Mugabe, and rich, white-ruled countries like Britain, Canada and 
Australia, which have criticized him. Yet it adds one more voice 
to those labeling Mr. Mugabe a pariah and increasing pressure on 
him to seek reconciliation, possibly through new elections.

  The opprobrium spread further today when Switzerland became the 
latest country to impose sanctions on Zimbabwe, "in view of the 
manipulation of the presidential elections and ongoing human 
rights violations," the Swiss government said.

  Under other restrictions, Mr. Mugabe and Zimbabwe's most senior 
leaders are already barred from travel to the United States and 
the European Union.

  "The committee has decided to suspend Zimbabwe from the councils 
of the Commonwealth for a period of one year with immediate 
effect," Mr. Howard said, reading the statement alone, 
apparently as a face-saving gesture to Mr. Mbeki, whose own 
election observers in Zimbabwe found the vote "legitimate."

  The response to Mr. Mugabe's behavior was seen by many outsiders 
as a token of South Africa's and Nigeria's own commitment to 
democracy as a way of fostering economic renewal. At a meeting 
in Monterrey, Mexico, for instance, the financier George Soros 
said today that the Zimbabwe elections "have cast doubt on the 
ability of the African states to create suitable conditions for 
private investment."

  If the Commonwealth had not suspended Zimbabwe - an act Mr. 
Howard saw as "at the severe end" of available punishments - 
such criticism would only have sharpened. Yet many African 
politicians, including Morgan Tsvangirai, the Zimbabwe 
opposition leader defeated in the election, had expressed doubt 
that the Commonwealth would take any action at all.

  The suspension was accompanied by suggestions for easing 
Zimbabwe's drastic food shortages and economic decline. The 
Commonwealth also supported moves to resolve the country's 
violent crisis over the seizure of white farmers' land, backing 
Mr. Mugabe in his commitment to redistribute territory among 
landless black Zimbabweans. This was apparently intended to keep 
the door open to dialogue.

  "Land is at the core of the crisis in Zimbabwe," Mr. Howard said 
in his statement.

  According to the statement, the leaders of South Africa and 
Nigeria will continue to talk to Mr. Mugabe about ways to lift 
the suspension.

  For all its critics say it is ineffective, the Commonwealth has 
nonetheless sought to project itself as an arbiter of democratic 
legitimacy among often delinquent members.

  In the 60's, white-ruled South Africa quit the Commonwealth 
rather than be suspended over apartheid; Nigeria was suspended 
in the 1990's during military rule because of the execution of 
the human rights activist Ken Saro Wiwa. Fiji has been suspended 
twice, once for 10 years. Pakistan has been suspended since the 
military coup two years ago that brought Gen. Pervez Musharraf 
to power.



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


Argentine Leader Quits as Economy Begins a Free Fall

 



  BUENOS AIRES, Dec. 20 - President Fernando de la R?signed 
today, halfway through his four-year term, swamped by violent 
protests and looting that erupted when his government failed to 
reverse a deepening economic crisis.

  The resignation letter, which was delivered to Congress late in 
the day, followed violent food riots and protests here and in 
several cities. At least five demonstrators were killed today, 
bringing the death toll to 21 since the protests began early 
Wednesday.

  The president had made a last- ditch effort to form a unity 
government today with the leading opposition party, but when 
that was rejected, he announced he would leave.

  Argentina, with widening budget deficits, is heavily indebted to 
foreign lenders and is battling to prevent more defaults. After 
a series of budget cuts and a patchwork of economic programs, 
the country lacks a coherent economic and monetary strategy, and 
has no consensus as to what should be done.

  Mr. de la R?resignation will put the country's immediate 
future in the hands of the moderate opposition party that 
controls Congress and had recently begun blocking many of the 
former president's policies.

  Ram?uerta, the president of the Senate, is to become 
Argentina's provisional president for at least 48 hours while 
the Congress decides how to prepare for new elections, which are 
likely sometime next year. Under the law, a new president should 
be installed within three months.

  But Congress can change that, and how it will play its hand will 
be largely left to opposition leaders, including a former 
president, Carlos Sa?nem, and Senator Eduardo Duhalde, who 
lost to Mr. de la R? the 1999 elections.

  Whoever takes power is expected to face the same tough choices 
that defeated the indecisive Mr. de la R?aced with recession 
and declining exports, some Wall Street analysts have predicted 
that Argentina will devalue its currency by unhinging the peso 
from its unusual one-for- one link to the dollar.

  While such a move would lower prices and spur growth by making 
the country's goods more attractive, it could also prove ruinous 
to millions of borrowers and to the nation's banking system 
because most loans in the country are repayable in dollars, not 
pesos.

  Mr. de la R?government collapsed with surprising rapidity, 
as the police fired shotguns at demonstrators in front of his 
palace, tear gas seeped into presidential offices and fires 
filled the grand boulevards and avenues of Buenos Aires with 
towers of black smoke.

  Thousands of demonstrators massed and set bonfires in front of 
the Congress and presidential palace throughout the day, until 
riot police, including some on horseback, stormed through the 
crowds this afternoon clubbing people while reinforcements fired 
water cannon and rubber bullets.

  Defiant crowds chanted "assassins, assassins, assassins," making 
the scenes of anarchy reminiscent of the turbulent days of 
military rule from 1976 to 1983. With the 5 deaths today, more 
than 1,000 demonstrators and looters were arrested. More than 50 
police officers were reported hurt in the disturbances in the 
capital alone.

  The violence today followed looting and rioting in 11 of 
Argentina's 24 provinces on Wednesday, and much damage to 
private businesses, especially food stores. Mr. de la R?eclared a state of siege for 30 days on Wednesday, giving him 
the right to suspend such Constitutional rights as freedom of 
assembly and speech, and giving him free rein to arrest at will.

  But his assumption of emergency powers appeared only to incite 
greater protests, beginning with an outpouring of thousands of 
people Wednesday night onto the streets of Buenos Aires, banging 
pots and pans and demanding Mr. de la R?resignation.

  In an attempt to save his government, Mr. de la R?4, went on 
national television on Wednesday night and apologized to the 
people for their disappointment in his administration's 
performance. He called on the opposition party, known as the 
Justicialist party, "to participate in a national unity 
government in which they can bring in their ideas and programs."

  When that call was rebuffed, Mr. de la R?ld his closest 
aides that he had no choice but to tape a televised resignation 
address.

  As soon as Nicolas Gallo, a senior personal aide to Mr. de la 
R?old reporters late this afternoon that the president had 
decided to resign, the streets began to calm. The text of the 
speech said the resignation was to "assure the peace."

  Mr. Gallo told reporters, "the president wanted to avoid more 
suffering." He said "history will judge" how Mr. de la R?
administration would be seen. "It's been a very sad day," he 
added.

  Most opposition party leaders have called for the devaluation of 
the peso and suspension of payment on the country's debts.

  They are also suggesting that business and consumer loans that 
are now valued in dollars be revalued into new peso amounts that 
would reduce the overall debt. The lower loan amounts would 
benefit individuals whose income is expected to decline by 30 
percent to 50 percent in a peso devaluation.

  This scheme is designed to help middle-class people with home 
mortgages and car loans that are currently valued in dollars.

  The losers would be bank lenders because the loans would not be 
fully repaid. Other losers could well be Argentine businesses 
that owe dollar debts abroad but collect revenue in pesos at 
home. It would take a greater number of devalued pesos to repay 
their dollar loans.

  "I believe the economy can be stabilized and grow during a 
transition government," said Governor Adolfo Rodr?ez Saa of 
San Luis Province, an influential member of the opposition.

  Mr. de la R?decline began in October 2000 with the 
resignation of his vice president, Carlos Alvarez, over the 
government's handling of charges that bribes were paid to 
opposition senators to pass a new labor law.

  Mr. de la R?ruling Alianza coalition of centrists and Social 
Democrats fractured, and his cabinet became a revolving door of 
officials and constantly changing economic policies.

  Then, in October, his coalition suffered a devastating defeat in 
legislative elections that gave the opposition control of both 
houses of Congress.

  Cabinet officials on Wednesday publicly accused the Buenos Aires 
governor, Carlos Ruckauf, a former vice president and one of the 
most powerful leaders of the opposition, of instigating the 
looting to overthrow the government.

  During an emergency meeting of the cabinet on Wednesday, 
ministers debated whether to openly confront Governor Ruckauf 
with charges of treason. Some aides to Mr. de la R?gued that 
the federal government should seize Governor Ruckauf's Buenos 
Aires provincial police force in order to control the rioting 
that surged in the working-class neighborhoods that surround the 
capital city.

  But Mr. de la R?sitated, and instead declared a state of 
siege, which failed to bring peace. Now Mr. Ruckauf is 
considered a major presidential contender.



Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


Finance Minister of Argentina Resigns Post

 



  The uncertainty of Argentina's precarious financial situation 
deepened yesterday when Daniel Marx, the finance secretary, 
resigned.

  Mr. Marx stepped down as Argentina paid $700 million in 
short-term debt owed to local banks by forcing pension funds to 
buy government bonds. The payment was the first of two in 
December that would hold off a default on its public debt.. 
Argentina has been struggling to contain its public debt, now 
totaling about $132 billion, after four years of recession.

  In discussing his decision, Mr. Marx suggested that it was time 
for someone else to oversee the government's negotiations with 
its creditors. "It's a cycle," he said. "I had also some 
personal things to deal with."

  Mr. Marx added that he would still work with the government, in 
a capacity that had not yet been formalized. "I agreed to 
continue to work on the national debt issues for Argentina," he 
said.

  In the last few weeks, working with the economy minister, 
Domingo Cavallo, Mr. Marx had been trying to persuade 
Argentina's foreign creditors to accept lower interest rates on 
existing debts. Domestic creditors already agreed, under some 
duress, to swap roughly $40 billion in obligations for new 
loans. Mr. Marx said that his foreign consultations had been 
proceeding "according to schedule."

  There was no doubt, however, that Mr. Marx's job had recently 
become tougher. The International Monetary Fund decided last 
week to delay the release of $1.3 billion in aid, which is 
needed to cover a budget shortfall. During the last few months, 
political infighting has eroded the government's ability to 
adhere to the zero-deficit rule favored by the I.M.F. and 
promised by Mr. Cavallo.

  Mr. Marx's resignation also followed a national strike on 
Thursday by union members, shopkeepers and unemployed workers, 
which brought the country close to a standstill. The strikers 
were protesting federal budget cuts and restrictions on 
withdrawals from bank accounts.

  Mr. Cavallo instituted the banking controls on Dec. 1 to stave 
off a run on Argentina's banks. Depositors who worried that the 
peso's fixed one-to-one exchange rate with the dollar was about 
to be broken by a devaluation, despite Mr. Cavallo's insistence 
to the contrary, were withdrawing dollars from bank accounts. A 
sudden, widespread drop in deposits threatened to choke economic 
activity and worsen the country's financial troubles.

  The controls were a sign of the financial pressures on 
Argentina, according to Vincent Truglia, an analyst at Moody's 
(news/quote). "They were indicative of the very difficult 
situation that the country was in and continues to be in," he 
said.

  Mr. Marx declined to say in an interview whether he had favored 
imposing the restrictions.

  Mr. Marx became finance secretary in December 1999 after a 
career in private finance and a stint on the board of 
Argentina's central bank. The finance secretary is effectively 
the economy minister's deputy, with specific responsibility for 
the public debt.

  Mr. Marx kept his job through the resignation and replacement of 
two economy ministers, Jose Luis Machinea and Ricardo 
Lopez-Murphy, and the return of Mr. Cavallo to government. His 
technical knowledge and strong relations with Argentina's 
foreign creditors won him considerable respect at home and 
abroad.

  Mr. Marx is known for favoring market-based rather than 
regulatory solutions to economic problems, a reputation shared 
by Julio Dreizzen, who resigned as finance undersecretary on 
Oct. 29, citing personal reasons.

  Mr. Marx's departure may pave the way for Miguel Kiguel, an 
economist from the Justicialist opposition party, to join Mr. 
Cavallo's team. On Thursday, Argentina's president, Fernando de 
la Rua  met with Carlos Sa?nem, a former president and 
leader of the Justicialists, to discuss economic strategy. The 
appointment of Mr. Kiguel to succeed Mr. Marx may be seen as a 
way to bring the Justicialists into Mr. De La Rua's ruling 
coalition, forming a sort of national unity government to 
address the economy.



Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


Six days that shook Venezuela

 



  CARACAS (AFP) - Here are the main events of the crisis that 
shook Venezuela over the past six days, in which at least 41 
people were killed and 323 were injured:

  Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike 
by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company, 
demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed 
by President Hugo Chavez.

  Wednesday, April 10: Union leaders extend the strike for 24 
hours because of what they call Chavez's `aggressive' and 
`intolerant' response to their demands. The strike is later made 
indefinite.

  - Oil exports, which account for 80 per cent of Venezuela's 
foreign revenues, are threatened as the strike stops production 
at the country's major refineries.

  Thursday, April 11: Some 50,000 people, including business and 
union leaders, mass to demand Chavez's resignation. The 
government urges supporters to back Chavez.

  - Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television 
networks opposed to him.

  - Pro-government and opposition demonstrators face off in 
Caracas. At least 15 people are killed and almost 100 are 
wounded.

  - A group of 10 top military officials declare their opposition 
to Chavez.

  
- Leading military officials in the Chavez government resign.

  Friday, April 12: Army commander General Efrain Vazquez 
announces that Chavez wants to resign.

  - Business leader Pedro Carmona replaces Chavez as the new 
President, dissolves the National Assembly, dismisses the 
Supreme Court, revokes 49 controversial Chavez decrees and 
announces Presidential elections in one year.

  - Latin American leaders meeting in Costa Rica for a trade 
summit denounce Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order.

  Saturday, April 13: In Washington, the Organization of American 
States says it is prepared to apply against Venezuela a charter 
requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy.

  - Pro-Chavez rioting breaks out in Caracas and other parts of 
country.

  - The commander of Venezuela's paratrooper brigade - Chavez's 
old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim 
government.

  - Chavez is transferred from an army base in Caracas to the 
island of Orchila, in the Caribbean Sea.

  - Thousands of Chavez supporters march towards the Presidential 
palace.

  
- Carmona takes refuge at Tiuna Fort, southwest of Caracas.

  - Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is 
conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and 
allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.

  - Carmona announces the restoration of the National Assembly, as 
Chavez cabinet members move into the Presidential palace and 
hold a meeting.

  - Carmona resigns the interim presidency, and Chavez's 
vice-President, Diosdado Cabello, takes over as acting 
President. Carmona is arrested along with his cabinet and 
general staff. Cabello promises to restore constitutional order.

  Sunday: Chavez leaves Orchila Island aboard a helicopter and 
heads to Caracas.

  - Chavez officially re-takes the presidency in an emotional 
Presidential palace ceremony at 4:30 am (0830 GMT). He then 
calls for peace, calm, and `the unity of the country.'

  - Emergency workers say that in total, at least 41 people have 
been killed and 323 injured in rioting around the country since 
Thursday.


U.S. Refuses to Recognize Mugabe Government

 



  U.S. President Bush said Wednesday that flaws in Zimbabwe's 
election will prevent the United States from recognizing the 
government's claim that incumbent Robert Mugabe was the winner.

  Bush told a news conference that the United States is consulting 
with other countries to decide how "to deal with this flawed 
election."

  Bush suspended U.S. entry privileges for Mugabe, his family or 
senior members of his government.

  He also denied entry to those who received "significant 
financial benefit" from dealings with Zimbabwean officials who 
carried out Mugabe's policies.

  U.S. officials said the administration may freeze assets of 
Zimbabwean officials involved in the alleged rigging of the 
democratic process.

  Another possibility is the banning of commercial export licenses 
of defense articles and services.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved




U.S. Begins First Airlift of Prisoners

 



  WASHINGTON, Jan. 10 - A C-17 Globemaster cargo plane carrying 20 
heavily guarded Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners left a Marine 
Corps base in southern Afghanistan today on its way to the 
United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the first wave 
of hundreds of detainees who will be held there.

  The Pentagon provided few details about the flight, but senior 
military officials said more than 40 specially trained military 
police officers guarded the prisoners on the flight, which was 
expected to make one stop before reaching Cuba, possibly as 
early as Friday morning.

  The prisoners, their hands and feet shackled and their heads 
covered by hoods, were loaded single file onto the plane at 
Kandahar Airport. Pentagon officials said some prisoners might 
also be sedated during the more-than-20-hour flight, but it was 
not clear whether that had happened.

  A Pentagon official said earlier this week that the United 
States did not consider the detainees prisoners of war, but that 
they were still being afforded the protections under the Geneva 
Convention guidelines.

  At Guantanamo Bay, the prisoners will be taken to a makeshift 
detention center known as Camp X- Ray, where they will be locked 
in 6- by-8-foot cages made of concrete and chain-link fence to 
await intensive interrogation and, possibly, trial before 
military tribunals.

  As workers prepared the camp in Cuba for as many as 2,000 
prisoners, search crews in Pakistan continued to comb the 
wreckage of a Marine Corps tanker plane that crashed on 
Wednesday in southwestern Pakistan. Seven marines died in the 
fiery accident.

  Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said today that there 
was no evidence that the crash had been caused by hostile fire.

  Pentagon officials also said today that the United States was 
preparing to send a force of more than 100 soldiers, many of 
them Special Operations forces, to the Philippines to help train 
Filipino troops to fight Muslim militants from the Abu Sayyaf 
group.

  Though the American forces are expected to be involved initially 
in advising and training Filipino counterterrorist units, senior 
American military officials have said they could become involved 
in direct military action if the Philippine government requested 
it.

  Amnesty International issued a statement today saying that 
sedating prisoners or shackling them for an entire flight would 
violate international standards prohibiting "cruel, inhuman or 
degrading" treatment.

  Mr. Rumsfeld said today that he did not know how the prisoners 
would be restrained during the flight. But he defended the use 
of strong measures, saying the Pentagon had closely studied 
violent uprisings by Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners held in the 
northern Afghan city of Mazar- i-Sharif and in Pakistan.

  About 20 minutes after the C-17 lifted off from the base at 
Kandahar Airport, marines came under small- arms fire near one 
of the runways. No one was injured and the identify of the 
snipers remained unknown tonight, military officials said.

  Military officials also said John Walker Lindh, the American who 
was captured with Taliban forces near Mazar-i-Sharif, was not 
among the prisoners transferred today. Mr. Walker is still being 
held aboard the assault ship Bataan in the Arabian Sea, the 
officials said.

  American forces in Afghanistan were holding a total of 371 
prisoners today, including 351 at Kandahar and 19 at Bagram air 
base north of Kabul. But the number keeps rising as American 
military and intelligence officials continue interviewing 
thousands of prisoners held by anti-Taliban militias.

  Camp X-Ray has cells for about 100 detainees, and will soon be 
expanded to hold 220. During the next few months, military work 
crews will build permanent facilities for as many as 2,000 
prisoners.

  Mr. Rumsfeld declined to discuss details about the growing 
American involvement in the Philippines, where Abu Sayyaf 
guerrillas have been battling government troops in the southern 
island of Basilan. The rebels, who have been linked to Al Qaeda 
in the past, are holding two American hostages for ransom.

  But earlier this week, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D. 
Wolfowitz said that American Special Operations forces might 
become involved in "direct support of Philippine military 
operations," though he added that the government seemed 
"anxious" to do the job itself.

  "There's no question that we believe that if they could clear 
the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a 
small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network," Mr. Wolfowitz 
said.

  In November, President Bush promised to give the Philippines a 
$100 million antiterrorism aid package that would include 
weapons, training and shared intelligence. Since then, the 
United States has sent an array of equipment to the Philippine 
military, including a C-130 cargo plane, 30,000 M-16 rifles and 
8 UH- 1 Huey helicopters.

  In eastern Afghanistan, American B-1 and B-52 bombers dropped 
precision-guided weapons on the sprawling Al Qaeda training camp 
at Zhawar Kili near the Pakistan border today for the sixth time 
in just over a week.

  Senior military officials have said they are increasingly 
concerned that there are other equally sophisticated and 
well-fortified underground complexes elsewhere in Afghanistan 
that could become guerrilla bases for remnants of the Taliban 
and Al Qaeda forces.

  At the Pentagon, Mr. Bush signed a $318 billion military 
spending bill today for the 2002 fiscal year. "Today more than 
ever we also owe those in uniform the resources they need to 
maintain a very high state of readiness," Mr. Bush said. "Our 
enemies rely upon surprise and deception. They used to rely upon 
the fact that they thought we were soft. I don't think they 
think that way anymore."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


Mugabe Predicts Victory in Zimbabwe's Election

 



  Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted 
victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying 
that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will 
have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for 
Democratic Change (MDC).

  Looking tired but blithesome after more than a month of daily 
election campaigns throughout the southern African country, 
Mugabe cast his vote in a weekend presidential poll, in which he 
is facing a serious challenge from his main rival Tsvangirai.

  The Zimbabwean veteran leader, who has been in power since the 
country gained independence from Britain in 1980, was 
accompanied to the polling station at a school in the poor 
suburb of Highfield in the capital Harare by family members, 
including two children.

  He told journalists after casting his ballot that he was more 
than confident of winning the election.

  "I will accept the results more than anything because I will 
have won," said Mugabe.

  He said those who thought the election process would be rigged 
were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were 
prejudging and wanted to direct the process.

  Tension has risen sharply in Zimbabwe in recent months, after 
long and sometimes violent election campaigns. The MDC party has 
accused Mugabe of using violence and other electoral 
manipulation to rig the poll.

  While defying international pressure to back down from his 
controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six- 
year mandate to complete the reforms.

  Under these reforms, the Zimbabwean government has taken over 
excess and idle farms from white farmers, who own the bulk of 
the country's arable land, to resettle landless peasants.

  Nearly 500,000 people have been resettled since the beginning of 
last year.

  However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke, 
particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has 
vowed to press ahead with the reforms.

  The European Union imposed sanctions on Mugabe and 19 of his 
close associates last month, while the United States took the 
same move, accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and 
cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary.

  The controversial land reform is the pillar of Mugabe's 
electoral strategy, which political analysts say could work 
either way.

  In Mugabe's view, the March election is a new chapter in his 
long struggle against colonial rule, which he led from the early 
1960s until the country's independence.

  "We have to deliver and safeguard the most important heritage to 
the young generation - land - which was taken from our 
forefathers by force," he told a recent rally.

  Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding 
Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream 
which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright 
teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of 
colonial rule.

  But that ambition would be fully tested at the ballot box this 
weekend.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved




Japan, U.S. Differ Over Global Warming Issues

 



  Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and visiting U.S. 
President George W. Bush differed over the Kyoto Protocol and 
how to prevent global warming but agreed to cooperate on that 
issue.

  Bush repeated his rejection of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol aimed 
atcurbing global warming, and pushed for the alternative he 
announced last week.

  Koizumi, meanwhile, called the new U.S. plan "a very 
constructive proposal," but asked for more efforts from the 
UnitedStates.

  "It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the 
protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so 
we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports 
theKyoto Protocol.

  "Both the economy and the environment can be improved 
together.We'd like to see further efforts on the part of the 
U.S.," the Japanese leader added.

  Bush rejected the Kyoto pact last March, saying that it would 
hurt U.S. economic growth.

  The U.S. president announced an alternative proposal last 
week,calling for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by 
companies in accordance with economic growth instead of 
mandatory reduction targets presented in the Kyoto pact.

  The proposal is criticized by environmentalists as ineffective 
for solving global warming and warn that under the plan U.S. 
greenhouse gas emissions will continue to rise.

  In Monday's summit talks, Bush and Koizumi agreed to cooperate 
together with other countries, including developing nations, on 
the issue of global warming.

  Japan and the U.S. can cooperate over the development of new 
technologies in the field and that such technologies will help 
notonly the environment but also economic development, they 
agreed.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved


Taiwan Caucus a US Provocation: Commentary

 



  On April 9, the 23rd anniversary of the United States ' 
troublemaking Taiwan Relations Act, the US Congress is due to 
unveil a 70-member Taiwan caucus.

  Most congressional caucuses are issue-based or for particular 
racial groups but this one will be devoted solely to Taiwan, an 
inalienable part of China.

  It is claimed that the caucus will serve as an official channel 
for legislators from both the United States and the island to 
exchange ideas.

  Such a provocative move will obviously overshadow the renewed 
Sino-US relations. On a more dangerous level, it may provide 
fodder to Taiwan's military forces and play into the hands of 
Taiwan separatist extremists.

  One of the group's goals is to promote US military ties with 
Taiwan.

  This comes at a time when there have been conspicuous signs of 
ever-increasing US-Taiwan military ties.

  In mid-March, the US side granted Taiwan "Defence Minister" Tang 
Yiau-ming a visa so he could attend a conference sponsored by US 
military contractors in Florida. On the sidelines of the 
conference, he met senior Bush administration officials 
including Deputy Defence Secretary Paul Wolfowitz and Assistant 
Secretary of State James Kelly.

  On March 22, Admiral Dennis Blair, commander-in-chief of the US 
Pacific Command, told the House Armed Services Committee that 
the United States and Taiwan can maintain a military balance 
across the Taiwan Straits if both sides continue modernizing 
their armed forces.

  It seems that this so-called military balance is what Taiwan 
leader Chen Shui-bian wants.

  Last Wednesday when receiving a special delegation from the US 
House of Representatives, Chen said that the strong support of 
the US Congress - which led to US arms sales to Taiwan in April 
last year - ensured a balanced cross-Straits military situation 
and peace in the Taiwan Straits.

  "President Bush reaffirmed the US promises to all Taiwanese and 
repeatedly declared he would abide by the Taiwan Relations Act - 
to provide Taiwan with the necessary protection against 
Beijing," Chen was quoted by the Taipei Times as saying.

  
In most cases, those who sow the wind will reap a whirlwind.

  The robust military build-up may not bring the so-called balance 
but menace instead cross-Straits peace and stability.

  Helping Taiwan build its military muscle will only foment 
pro-independence forces. Since the latest remarks and events may 
give these forces the impression that the United States is on 
their side and ready to provide military protection, they may 
become provocative enough to push the island to the edge.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved


Venezuela's Chief Forced to Resign; Civilian Installed

 



  CARACAS, Venezuela, April 12 - A transitional government headed 
by a leading businessman replaced President Hugo Chavez today, 
hours after military officers forced him to resign. It was a 
sudden end to the turbulent three-year reign of a mercurial 
strongman elected on promises to distance his country from the 
United States while uprooting Venezuela's old social order.

  Mr. Chavez, 47, a firebrand populist who had said he would 
remake Venezuela to benefit the poor, was obligated to resign in 
a meeting with three military officers about 3 a.m. today after 
large street protests on Thursday in which at least 14 people 
were killed by gunmen identified as his supporters.

  Early this morning, Mr. Chavez, in military fatigues and the 
trademark red beret of his left-leaning movement, was driven off 
to the Fort Tiuna army base in Caracas, where he was reported to 
be in custody.

  Pedro Carmona Estanga, the head of Venezuela's most important 
business association, was installed as interim president at a 
ceremony at 6 p.m. He promised that the new government would 
adhere to "a pluralistic vision, democratic, civil and ensuring 
the implementation of the law, the state of law."

  
Elections will be held within a year, officials said.

  The Bush administration laid the blame for Mr. Chavez's 
overthrow firmly with the ousted leader. Officials portrayed the 
ouster as a victory for democracy, even though Mr. Chavez was a 
legitimately elected president.

  "We know that the action encouraged by the Chavez government 
provoked this crisis," said Ari Fleischer, the White House 
spokesman. The Chavez government, he added, suppressed a 
peaceful demonstration and fired on unarmed protesters.

  However, Latin American leaders at a summit meeting in Costa 
Rica criticized Mr. Chavez's ouster as an "interruption of the 
constitutional order."

  A former army paratrooper who won office in 1998, Mr. Chavez 
presided over a stormy era when he seized control of the 
legislature, confronted the old-line political elite and steered 
the country into an alliance with Cuba.

  Mr. Carmona, the president of Fedeca-iras, a business 
association, said early today that Mr. Chavez had "presented his 
resignation." He spoke flanked by military officers who had 
rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday night, the third day of 
a general strike called by his opponents.

  On the streets of this sprawling capital, opponents of the 
government took to the streets in the early morning hours, 
honking horns and waving the gold, blue and red of the 
Venezuelan flag. El Universal, a leading newspaper here, hailed 
the end with these words, "It's over!"

  The interim government quickly moved to undo Mr. Chavez's 
policies, dissolving the National Assembly controlled by his 
supporters, firing members of the Supreme Court and changing the 
country's official name back to the Republic of Venezuela. Mr. 
Chavez had renamed the country the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela.

  In addition, the interim government repealed 49 economic laws 
passed by the Chavez-controlled National Assembly last year, 
legislation that business leaders feared would damage the 
economy.

  While pledging to hold presidential elections within 365 days, 
officials said that Mr. Carmona, who had been a leader in the 
protest movement against Mr. Chavez, will not be able to run.

  Mr. Carmona named new ministers, including two active-duty 
military officers who rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday 
night. He also named retired Brig. Gen. Guaicaipuro Lameda to 
head Petr?s de Venezuela, the huge state-owned oil company, 
which exports most of its oil to the United States.

  Mr. Chavez had fired Mr. Lameda in February and appointed a 
left-leaning ally in his place along with five board members 
close to his government, enraging thousands of office workers at 
the company.

  Mr. Carmona said that operations would return to normal at the 
oil company. It had been crippled when office and production 
workers began staging work slowdowns last week in protest.

  "Venezuelan society has reached a consensus to find a way 
forward, a way that necessitated a transitional government that 
guarantees the reestablishment of democracy," Mr. Carmona told 
reporters

  Mr. Carmona said that the transitional government was being 
formed with "the consensus of civil society and also from the 
military."

  Cuba called the change-over a coup and urged other countries to 
distance themselves from the new government. President Fidel 
Castro and Mr. Chavez had formed a close friendship.

  The interim government today ended Mr. Chavez's policy of 
offering oil to Cuba under terms favorable to Havana.

  Mr. Chavez's daughter, Mar?Gabriela, speaking in an interview 
on state television in Cuba, said that her father had not 
resigned. In a phone conversation Friday morning, just before he 
fell from power, he told her, "I am a jailed president," she 
said.

  The attorney general, Isa? Rodr?ez, also said Mr. Chavez had 
not resigned, but was forced out by military officers.

  President Vicente Fox of Mexico took a strong stand, saying his 
country would not recognize Venezuela's new government until 
elections were held. Diplomatic relations between the two 
countries, however, would continue.

  American officials praised the Venezuelan military and the 
police for defying Mr. Chavez, as well as television stations 
and other media outlets that continued to function despite 
government orders to shut down.

  "We wish to express our solidarity with the Venezuelan people 
and look forward to working with all democratic forces in 
Venezuela to ensure the full exercise of democratic rights," 
said Philip T. Reeker, a State Department spokesman.

  For now, the government focused on clearing up the events 
leading to the violence of Thursday afternoon, remembering the 
fallen and searching for those who were responsible. Mr. 
Chavez's interior minister, Ram?odr?ez Chac? was taken 
into custody, and the police were looking for a strong Chavez 
supporter, Freddy Bernal, the mayor of a district of Caracas.

  Security forces, meanwhile, searched the homes of members of the 
Bolivarian Circles, neighborhood groups that were formed by Mr. 
Chavez's government and that were accused by the interim 
government of responsibility in the shootings.

  Television broadcasts on Thursday showed several men in 
plainclothes firing semiautomatic handguns from a bridge over a 
busy street in downtown Caracas. Among the crowd of assailants 
were people in red berets and T-shirts bearing the name of Mr. 
Chavez's movement.

  Mr. Carmona said that "justice must be done" for the families of 
those killed. He promised that they would receive government 
benefits.

  Among Mr. Carmona's most pressing tasks now will be to assuage 
concerns in other countries about how Mr. Chavez's reign ended 
and deal with the polarization between rich and poor that 
divides this country, analysts familiar with Venezuela said.

  "The goal for his successors is to effectively tackle the 
pressing socio-economic issues that brought Chavez to power with 
so much popular support," said Russell Crandall, a Latin America 
specialist at Davidson College in North Carolina. "Chavez was 
right about the problems he saw in Venezuela. He was wrong about 
the solutions and the Venezuelan people made that very clear."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


   Argentina braces for currency fall

 



  BUENOS AIRES - Nostalgia runs deep in Argentina. Even before its 
faltering economy produced an epic-sized default, and the 
country was thrust into its worst crisis since democracy was 
restored in 1983, Argentines were obsessed with their past 
triumphs.

  But now a different variety of nostalgia appears to be emerging. 
Some call it the Ford Falcon syndrome, a reference to the 
classic gas-guzzler that inefficient Argentine automakers 
continued to turn out in droves 20 years after it disappeared 
from US showrooms.

  The man whom some economists say is leading the step backward in 
time is the country's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, 
Argentina's fifth in two weeks. After four years of crippling 
recession, Duhalde and others are questioning whether 
Argentina's decade-long pursuit of free market reforms is the 
right solution.

  With his appointment by Congress last Wednesday to finish the 
two years left in the term vacated by ex-President Fernando de 
la R?he Peronist Duhalde is now promoting a number of 
emergency measures that would turn back the clock on liberal 
economic reforms.

  On Friday, President Duhalde asked Congress for broad new powers 
to end the country's decade-old currency regime that pegs the 
peso to the US dollar, to intervene in the banking system, to 
institute price controls, and to protect local industry and 
jobs. It was approved overwhelmingly by the lower house of 
Congress late Saturday and was expected to be passed by the 
Senate yesterday.

  Everyone from the International Monetary Fund in Washington to 
the traditional protectionists in Buenos Aires thought 
devaluation was necessary, if painful. But some analysts are 
concerned that Duhalde will follow it up with a return to the 
protectionism and failed policies that dominated the country's 
economy for half of this past century, until ex-President Carlos 
Menem changed course last decade and ushered in an era of 
stability.

  "He must think he can defy gravity, because he's pursuing the 
same crash course that Argentines and the rest of Latin America 
rejected a decade ago," says Christopher Ecclestone, head of 
investment boutique Buenos Aires Trust.

  Duhalde's embrace of the past can be partly explained by the 
nature of the Peronists themselves, whom Argentine literary 
giant Jorge Luis Borges once referred to as neither good nor 
bad, just incorrigible.

  The party, founded by Gen. Juan Domingo Peron in the 1940s, has 
long dominated Argentine politics, thanks to a deft mix of 
populist policies, nationalist rhetoric, and political 
patronage. A weekend poll by Aresco consultancy showed 52 
percent of Argentines "highly" in favor of Duhalde's stated 
economic plans and another 34 percent giving him "medium" 
approval - an indication of public confidence.

  But at a time when the country is desperate for investment and 
international aid to prevent an economic crisis from exploding 
further, it is unclear how far Duhalde could actually turn back 
the clock even if he wanted to.

  For starters, there's a wariness among economists that an 
expected 30 to 40 percent devaluation could spark a return to 
the chaotic days of the late 1980s, when 5,000-percent inflation 
was rampant. Already, everything from bread to computer parts 
has been marked up by as much as 20 percent in anticipation of 
the devaluation.

  To contain inflation and fill an expected $11 billion budget 
deficit this year, government officials say a rescue package of 
at least $15 billion is needed from the IMF and other lenders. 
Otherwise, the country's cash-strapped banks, which are being 
forced to accept lesser-valued pesos for loans made almost 
entirely in dollars, will collapse.

  But few expect the government's plan for reviving the country's 
moribund economy to elicit much support abroad. In fact, quite 
the contrary.

  Already a swarm of powerful lobbies representing foreign 
companies have descended on Buenos Aires to fight government 
plans to introduce price and capital controls. The government is 
also taking heat for its plans to violate privatization 
contracts signed a decade ago and unilaterally lower the rates 
mostly foreign-owned utilities can charge for public services 
like water and gas.

  "He's not just steering the economy into disaster, but he's 
breaking fundamental concepts like right to savings and the rule 
of law," says Abel Viglione, senior economist at local think 
tank Fiel. "No matter what economic policy is in place, that 
sort of trust takes several years, if not an entire generation, 
to rebuild."

  But the stiffest opposition may yet come from the Argentines 
themselves. Despite widespread fatigue caused by successive 
austerity drives, such as limiting bank withdrawals to $1,000 
per month, the overwhelming majority of Argentines still prefer 
the stability of the current economic model - despite its many 
shortcomings - to the disorder of a closed economy.

  Surveys show that more than 70 percent of the public opposes any 
changes to convertibility, as the currency regime is known.

  "Those who want to devalue are shameless," says Maria Estevez, a 
schoolteacher who earns $600 a month. "They want to hold us 
hostage and force us to buy goods that can be bought cheaper and 
better quality imported."

  Instead of blaming globalization, most Argentines point to 
corrupt politicians and indifferent institutions for 
precipitating the current crisis.

  For such an ambitious economic program to work requires a strong 
leader with popular support to implement it. But that's exactly 
what Duhalde most lacks. Although he's so far successfully 
rallied the country's political class behind him, Duhalde, a 
former vice president to Menem and two-time governor of Buenos 
Aires province, has been dogged by allegations of corruption 
throughout his career. His reputation as an old-style party boss 
was behind his defeat at the polls in 1999, when he posted the 
worst showing ever by a Peronist presidential candidate.


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights reserved.


Blair not happy with new green deal

 



  The British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, disagreed yesterday with 
Australia's decision to sign a climate change deal with the 
United States.

  The Federal Government denied that the agreement, signed this 
week, was a signal it was dumping the Kyoto Protocol on 
greenhouse gases.

  The Australian-US "climate action partnership" involves liaison 
between governments, businesses and research bodies on climate 
change.

  Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not 
want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US 
- which does want to dump Kyoto.

  Australia's involvement in Kyoto has been in doubt ever since 
the US President, George Bush, announced last year that 
ratifying the protocol would hurt the US economy.

  The future of the protocol, which sets targets for all countries 
in an attempt to cut pollution, will be decided this year at a 
meeting in Johannesburg.

  A spokeswoman for the Environment Minister, David Kemp, said 
yesterday that the minister was on his way to talks with the 
European Union in Brussels after a formal visit to Washington, 
and that the Government was still committed to Kyoto.

  The Opposition's environment spokesman, Kelvin Thomson, said 
yesterday that Australia "should not follow the US position on 
climate change".

  Mr Blair told the ABC that greenhouse gases were an area where 
there was an obvious disagreement with the US.

  Asked if the disagreement was also with Australia, Mr Blair 
said: "Yes. But I simply say to people, it is for individual 
countries to state their own position."

  
He was not sure the Kyoto Protocol actually went far enough.

  "The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I 
become about this issue."



Copyright @ 2002 Sydney Morning Herald


   Zimbabwe vote a test of patience

 



  HARARE AND RUSHINGA, ZIMBABWE - Martha's neighbors know her as a 
high-ranking district official of Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF 
Party, the woman who drills local children each Friday in the 
party doctrine. But in her heart, the 38-year-old widow supports 
the opposition and keeps a Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) 
membership card hidden in a cooking pot.

  "We just want someone who can give us food, hospitals, school 
fees. A better life," says Martha, explaining why she voted for 
MDC candidate Morgan Tsvangirai.

  There are many Marthas here, people who marched to ZANU-PF 
anthems and cheered President Robert Mugabe at rallies, while 
secretly planning to vote for Mr. Tsvangirai. "People pretend to 
be ZANU-PF because they are afraid. They wear the T-shirts and 
go to the rallies, but inside, they don't believe," she says.

  After months of fear and intimidation, Zimbabweans streamed to 
the polls this weekend in record numbers to cast their votes in 
the country's first contested election since independence 22 
years ago. Many arrived at overburdened polling stations in the 
early hours of the morning and waited in the hot sun for the 
entire day without food.

  "You see this tarred road and this grass? That was my bed," says 
Janet, a Harare secretary, who waited for more than 27 hours at 
a polling station in the impoverished Harare suburb of 
Kuwadzana. "I wanted to go home, but I have to vote," she says. 
"This is a crucial presidential election. This is our future."

  Even as voters went to the polls over the weekend, the 
intimidation and attempts at rigging continued. The government 
slashed the number of polling stations in urban areas where the 
MDC is favored, while boosting the number in rural ruling-party 
strongholds. In Kuwadzana, there were seven polling stations for 
about 55,000 people. Rural Bindura had 41 polling stations for a 
smaller number of people.

  Now the country's 5.6 million voters are waiting anxiously for 
the results of the poll to be announced, although the voting, 
which was supposed to end Sunday, may stretch on for days. The 
question foremost in the minds of most Zimbabweans is whether 
attempts to rig the election through voter intimidation, last- 
minute election-law changes, and outright fraud have succeeded.

  An increasing number of local election monitors and 
international observers say the vote rigging has been so 
thorough that hopes for a free election are dead.

  "The main cheating took place long before election days," says 
Brian Murphy of the Zimbabwe Citizens support group, an 
organization whose members spread around the country this 
weekend privately monitoring the elections. Mr. Murphy points to 
the lack of independent voter education, the lack of any 
independent radio stations, and the ban on holding opposition 
rallies in many districts as just a few examples. "This is not a 
fair election," he says.

  
There is a deep faith here, however, in the power of democracy.

  Edward Murchabaiw arrived at a Rushinga polling station at 6 
a.m. in a wheelbarrow, his emaciated frame drowing in a faded 
blue suit-jacket. Murchabaiw, diagnosed in the last stages of 
AIDS, does not believe he will live to see the results of this 
election. But he wanted to sound his voice. "I am happy now," he 
says with a bright smile after voting. "I have made a 
difference."

  In urban areas, lines snaked for more than a mile and angry 
voters sometimes tried to push their way into polling booths. 
Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets at one restless crowd, 
injuring at least 12 people. Some polls stayed open all night, 
with people voting by flickering candlelight or under harsh 
fluorescent bulbs.

  "The intention, of course, is that you frustrate as many voters 
as you can. Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to 
disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against 
him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where 
thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands 
in the open-handed signal of the MDC.

  In rural areas, many polling stations stood empty by midday. 
Lines were not a problem, but transparency was.

  The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were 
chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government 
officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse. 
Old and illiterate voters were assisted by ZANU-PF officials who 
often directed them to vote for the incumbent president.

  At the Chaparandza Primary School in the rural Rushinga, Mary 
Mugumira, wearing a wool "USA 1997" hat, a long traditional 
dress, no shoes, and a confused look, asked the presiding 
officer to vote for her. He refused, but sent her to talk to the 
election officers - both of whom represented the ruling ZANU-PF 
party. A moment later she had decided, and the polling agent, 
smiling, put an "X" mark on the ballot in the space marked 
"Robert Mugabe, ZANU-PF."

  Despite everything, there is still hope in Zimbabwe that this 
election may bring change.

  "I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant 
Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one 
Harare voting line. "I think this is the final nail on the 
government's coffin. Even with all their tricks, there are too 
many of us."


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.


Ministry Criticizes 'Odious' U.S. Report

 



  The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to 
put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of 
Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the 
"odious" section on Chechnya.

  "One gets the impression that its writers simply used old 
drafts, as if nothing had happened in either Russia or the 
United States in recent years, as if the events of Sept. 11, 
2001 had not occurred and the international community had not 
closed ranks in the battle against terrorism," the ministry said 
in a statement.

  The State Department's annual human rights report, which was 
published Monday, said Russia had a poor record regarding the 
independence and freedom of the media and in Chechnya. Russian 
security forces in Chechnya have "demonstrated little respect 
for basic human rights and there were credible reports of 
serious violations, including numerous reports of extrajudicial 
killings by both the government and Chechen fighters," the 
report said.

  Russian officials from President Vladimir Putin on down have 
portrayed the conflict in Chechnya as a war against 
international terrorists. U.S. officials have partially endorsed 
that view, pointing to rebel leaders such as Shamil Basayev and 
the Jordanian-born Omar Ibn al Khattab, who are believed to have 
financial and other ties to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist 
network.

  However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not 
have international ties, and they have criticized Russian 
military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism 
was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic 
member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence 
information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and 
giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central 
Asia.

  The Foreign Ministry said that the State Department 
pronouncement on Chechnya reflected the efforts of "certain 
circles" in the United States that object to the new 
U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism.

  "These circles have persistently tried to reanimate the 'Chechen 
problem,' and turn it again into an irritant in the 
Russian-American dialogue," the ministry said.

  The ministry also suggested that before judging others' rights 
records, the United States should investigate the situation at 
home, including the government's failure to ratify some 
international human rights agreements and the use of the death 
penalty. Russia introduced a moratorium on capital punishment, a 
prerequisite for joining the Council of Europe, in 1996.




Guantanamo's Unhappy Campers

 


Weekly Standard 
February 11, 2002

  
Guantanamo's Unhappy Campers

  
The only abuse the detainees are experiencing is self-inflicted.

  
By Matt Labash

  GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA -- It's 5 A.M. at the Roosevelt Roads Naval 
station in Puerto Rico, and 20 journalists straggle to the gate 
in sleep-deprived silence to catch a plane to Guantanamo Bay. 
Many of us haven't been up this early in years. But after flying 
thousands of miles, then pub-crawling through the streets of Old 
San Juan last night, we are here because our military escorts 
insist we show up at this time, though the flight actually 
leaves four hours later. "The military operates on one 
principle," explains a savvy veteran: "Hurry up and wait."

  If we're not happy, that goes double for our public affairs 
babysitters. "I'm up to my ears in Vieques," says Navy Lt. Corey 
Barker, of the nearby bombing range/public relations fiasco that 
has been protested by everyone from Al Sharpton to obscure 
Kennedys. Now, Barker is stuck minding us as we light out for 
Guantanamo, the American naval station on the southeastern tip 
of Cuba. It is there that 158 al Qaeda/Taliban prisoners are 
being detained because, depending on who you ask, it is an 
ideal, sunny clime, it's not subject to the get-out-of-jail 
escape hatches of U.S. federal law, or because, as one senior 
Pentagon official says, "The lawyers didn't want to go on 
14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific."

  Inside the air terminal, our baggage handlers check us in with 
the efficiency of Bulgarian DMV workers. A sign on the wall says 
"Air Terminal of the Year 2000." "I'd hate to see who got second 
place," whispers one reporter. As we wait for our flight on a 
creaky Pan Am jet, we are shunted off to the "VIP" room, so 
named because it has a coffee pot and seascape paintings that 
look pilfered from a south Florida retirement village. Here, we 
are given our media "indoctrination" packages, never an 
encouraging word if you aspire to reportorial autonomy. As we 
sit watching CNN, an unfounded rumor gains currency. Though it's 
Saturday, and we're supposed to be in Cuba until Monday, the 
military has changed plans and is going to make us leave 
Guantanamo Sunday morning. "One thing's for sure," says a wire 
reporter, "you won't have to sort through all your notes to 
decide what to lead with."

  Fearing an abbreviated schedule, I commence valuable 
newsgathering. Knowing that in some Taliban-held provinces, 
pederasty rivaled headless-goat polo (buzkashi) as the favorite 
pastime, I ask a Naval officer if there are any reports of 
Guantanamo prisoners turning to man-love. "Oh God no," he says. 
"Though there are some Air Force personnel over there, so who 
knows what's going on?"

  Another officer relays something we'll hear repeated often: that 
because of international political pressure, the prisoners are 
getting coddled. The latest report has Army guards directing 
detainees on which way to pray to Mecca. "They're actually going 
to paint arrows on the floors of the cells so they'll know to 
face north," he says. "You mean east," I say. "North, east, 
whatever," he replies, "I'm Lutheran--I don't know where the 
hell it is."

  A FEW hours later, we touch down at the Guantanamo landing strip 
on the isolated leeward side of the base (Gitmo, as it is 
nicknamed, is actually bisected by Guantanamo Bay). After 
getting sniffed by a German shepherd who's more interested in 
bombs than my colleague's Percocet, we're escorted to the media 
center, an ugly wood-paneled affair that sits next to a pink 
hangar. After another hour or two of waiting, a mouthy reporter 
loudly calls his editor so we can all hear him report the 
latest: "Same shit, different day. Though they're really 
cleaning up the media center. Curtains, an air conditioner, even 
a freakin' bulletin board!"

  The hospitality ends there. A stern sign on the bulletin board 
admonishes us to clean up after ourselves. The goodies set out 
on a table (grape beverage powder and apple jelly from 
meals-ready-to-eat packs) practically scream, "Can't wait till 
you leave." Many of us had secretly harbored the fantasy that we 
could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the 
prisoners' cells, the terrorist equivalent of a field trip to 
the ASPCA.

  But as a gaggle of public affairs officers enter, they lay down 
two immutable laws: There will be no access to detainees (the 
Geneva Convention forbids making them a "public curiosity"). And 
we can go only where the officers take us. Running the public 
affairs show is Army Lt. Col. William Costello, a bearish 
soldier who looks like the kind of guy who enjoys breaking 
things on his face. His hard, dark orbs dart to and fro while he 
delivers a good news/bad news proposition. The good news is 
Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld will be visiting the 
detainees' Camp X-Ray the next morning. The bad news is that the 
unfounded rumor is founded--the Pentagon press corps is coming 
with him, and we'll be forced to leave a day early.

  Immediately, an angry media throng closes in on Costello, the 
air now containing an Altamont-like level of violence. "My 
editors are going to crush my nuts," says one reporter, probably 
female. "This is crazy," I say, "How am I supposed to get enough 
material for a piece?" "Not my problem," replies Costello. "This 
is bullshit," thunders another print reporter. "You're making us 
leave as the biggest story gets here." "You're not allowed to 
stay," says Costello. "Why not?" snaps the reporter. Costello's 
blood rises as his high-and-tight haircut stands up like an 
angry-dog scruff: "BECAUSE ... YOU'RE ... NOT ... STAYING!" 
"Welcome to the Pearl of the Antilles," deadpans Lt. Commander 
Brendan McPherson, in a limp cruise-director chirp.

  It's understandable if public affairs types are a little testy. 
There's an obvious culture clash (military personnel don't get 
paid to ask why; journalists don't get paid otherwise). Besides 
that, ever since the detainees started arriving on January 11, 
Gitmo and the joint forces being run under Southern Command have 
experienced the PR equivalent of what my ever-subtle 
colleagues--borrowing from Special Forces terminology for 
disastrous missions--call a "goat f--." In the richest irony of 
the war on terrorism, the Department of Defense, which normally 
goes out of its way not to make news, caused an international 
outcry by releasing still shots of detainees being brought to 
Camp X-Ray.

  As they were transported and in-processed, al Qaeda members were 
photographed kneeling, wearing earmuffs, shackles, and blackout 
goggles. Though these seemed perfectly reasonable precautions to 
take when transporting by C-141 members of an organization 
already responsible for one prison uprising (Mazar-i-Sharif, 
which resulted in a CIA operative's death) and several suicide 
plane crashes, human rights groups and international media, led 
by a chorus of Euro-whiners, immediately lapsed into hysterics.

  The British press, with typical understatement, claimed 
prisoners were being "brutalized, tortured, and humiliated," and 
that the whole operation was nothing more than "a sick attempt 
to appeal to the worst red-neck prejudices." Tony Blair pointed 
out that the three British al Qaeda members being held at Gitmo 
have had no complaints. But that didn't stop the Mirror's 
Stephen Moyes from method reporting by donning an al Qaeda rig. 
"Wrapped in the suffocating orange boiler suit," he wrote, "I 
lost any sense of dignity"--a loss he could have just as easily 
sustained by rereading his own copy.

  Sillier still were protestations from such humanitarians as 
Saddam Hussein and the government of Malaysia (Prime Minister 
Mahathir Mohamad has made some of the loudest noise, though 
Amnesty International dings him for arresting the speechwriter 
of a political rival, who was then blindfolded, stripped naked, 
punched, verbally abused, and forced to simulate homosexual 
acts--none of which is alleged at Camp X-Ray). About the only 
foreign leader who has supported the American detainee camp, 
ironically, is Fidel Castro, who is either angling to end the 
embargo or inching ever closer to dementia. (He declared January 
"Americans' Month" and invited Jimmy Carter for a visit.)

  All of this has made Camp X-Ray personnel a sensitive lot. On 
the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is 
located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has 
decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and 
who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has 
cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit. Costello, like many 
Gitmo types, is baffled at the uproar over the prisoners' 
treatment. "Soldiers and Marines that are guarding the detainees 
at Camp X-Ray have worse conditions than the detainees," he 
says. Much has been made over their being kept in outdoor cells, 
invariably called "cages," which are topped with corrugated 
tin-covered wooden roofs that keep what little rain Gitmo gets 
(six inches a year) off the prisoners. Costello says their 
eight-by-eight cells contain about twice as much space as 
soldiers have in their crowded, unventilated tents a few hundred 
yards away.

  "They're getting warm showers, clean laundry, hot chow," 
Costello says of the prisoners. "They're getting 2,600 calories 
a day. I'm not getting 2,600 calories a day. I'm running my ass 
off chasing you guys around." (One of the medics treating 
detainees claims that a full quarter of them were suffering from 
malnutrition when they were captured.)

  But we don't have to take Costello's word for it. We can see for 
ourselves, sort of. After a quick stop at McDonald's (the only 
one in Cuba), our white school bus transports us past beautiful 
seaside vistas and brownish cactus-infested scrub, past 
ramshackle housing and up a hill, which features an abandoned 
auto yard that the locals used to call Sears. It's where they'd 
strip old junkers for parts then used on jerry-rigged jalopies 
called "Gitmo specials."

  Across from Sears is Camp X-Ray, a teeming hive of concertina 
wire, canvas tents, guard towers, and newly constructed plywood 
interrogation shacks with window-unit air conditioners. The 
chain-link cells themselves don't need air conditioning, since a 
comfortable Caribbean breeze (temperatures range from the low 
70s at night to the low 80s during the day) continuously 
circulates through the encampment.

  Restricted to an area about 150 yards away from the open-air 
cellblocks, we observe the camp from a slight elevation that 
CNN's John Zarrella calls "Heartbreak Ridge," so named "because 
if you're a journalist, it breaks your heart that you can't get 
closer." Gitmo has actually been the site of a lot of heartbreak 
over the years.

  It broke Christopher Columbus's, when he stopped here on his 
second New World voyage. He left after failing to find gold, 
threatening to cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't 
agree to pretend they'd reached Asia. It also rankles Castro, 
who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but 
can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement. Likewise, 
when thousands of Cuban rafters were detained here for months in 
the mid-'90s, many grew so unhappy with Gitmo's ghostly 
desolation that they'd do anything to leave, including inject 
diesel fuel into their veins, drive tent stakes into their 
limbs, even swim back to Castro's Cuba.

  By comparison, the al Qaedans look pretty fat, if not happy. 
They laze away in the shade of their cells. They sleep on 
inch-and-a-half-thick isomats, the same ones that are issued to 
our military. With the assistance of a Muslim Navy chaplain, 
they pray five times daily. (Quick studies, the al Qaedans 
didn't need arrows painted on their cell floors. A single 
signpost next to an American flag points the way to Mecca.) And 
while American prisoners in the Hanoi Hilton often spent years 
in solitary confinement and received no medical care (John 
McCain to this day can't comb his own hair), X-Ray detainees get 
daily sick calls from all manner of doctors, from optometrists 
to podiatrists. The prisoners (who represent about 25 different 
nationalities but mostly are Saudis) can also freely chat with 
each other about God knows what: prison uprisings, the demise of 
Talk magazine, trades of Froot Loops for garlic bagel chips.

  Their restroom arrangements are pretty spartan. They get a white 
bucket for emergency squirts, while they are instructed to hold 
two fingers up for the alternative. At that time, a guard 
shackles them and takes them to the port-o-loo. While the 
military has spared no expense in construction costs (in three 
weeks, they built a completely operational field hospital 
staffed by 160 medical personnel--two more than there are 
prisoners), they've saved a fortune in toilet paper. It's the 
detainees' cultural preference not to use any. "We don't shake 
their hands," says one camp guard.

  In addition to the aforementioned amenities, detainees also 
receive two towels, a Koran, a shortened toothbrush (still long 
enough to file into a shiv), a canteen, a bucket of water, 
fluoride toothpaste, and shampoo. Not just any shampoo, but 
"Lively" salon anti-dandruff shampoo--a "luxurious shampoo in a 
gentle formula that restores moisture, shine, and body to your 
beautifully clean hair." Those who think the prisoners are 
getting coddled (Rep. John Mica, a Florida Republican, visited 
the camp and said it's "too good for the bastards") will be 
happy to know that the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched.

  WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great 
lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees 
have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to 
kill Americans. When I skirt away from my minders and visit the 
Marine snipers' tent, I learn it went well beyond that.

  The snipers, of course, are the camp's deadliest sharpshooters, 
ropy young bucks (21-23 years of age) who seem largely culled 
from the western or southern United States, where firearms are 
often regarded as extra appendages. Their tent looks like a 
Marines-issued college dorm room: Skoal-juice bottles, laundry 
hanging everywhere, and a spade-like sniper insignia banner 
tacked to a tent wall. If there is a prison uprising, it is 
these gentleman who will man the guard towers and introduce the 
rioters to their 72 black-eyed virgins.

  At some point, that might become necessary, they tell me, as 
plotting is obviously afoot. Sgt. Matt Lampert of Montana says 
the other day one of the prisoners was caught "with a piece of 
cloth stuffed with rocks that was tied off at the end." Sgt. 
Rodney Davis says that during chowtime, he sees them through his 
scope "making terrain models out of their food." And unlike say, 
Afghan prisons, where starving detainees are reportedly begging 
to be sent to Gitmo, there's plenty of food to play with. "They 
get fed better than us, sir," says Lampert. When I ask the 
Marines if they've seen anything weird, they laugh sheepishly, 
looking at each other. Finally, Sgt. Josh Westbrook, who sports 
a forearm tattoo of flaming baby heads, steps up. "They know 
they're being watched," he explains, "so they'll stare at you, 
and while they stare at you, they'll, uh, masturbate."

  According to these Marines, they don't just pleasure themselves 
to freak out the snipers, but also to embarrass the female Army 
guards in the camp's interior. The weirdness doesn't end there. 
They've also eaten their toiletries and urinated on equipment. 
"The other day," says Westbrook, "one of the guys tried to do a 
naked cartwheel." In the most bizarre twist, Lance Corporal 
Devin Klebaur says a few have also been known to "put toothpaste 
in their ass." "What's the purpose?" I ask. "I'm not sure," he 
says, puzzled.

  After leaving the snipers, I collar other grunts who say they 
believe the prisoners are more apt to act out whenever they see 
one of the regular visitors from the International Committee of 
the Red Cross enter the camp. "They're looking to be 
disciplined," says one, so that any aggressive guard behavior 
will make it look as if they're being brutalized by the American 
military in front of international witnesses. ICRC visits, says 
another soldier, are the highlight of a prisoner's day, since 
they've been spotted "giving the unshackled prisoners cookies 
and milk, cigarettes, shaking their hands." Many organizations 
who haven't been to Gitmo, like Human Rights Watch, have been 
extremely critical of the prisoners' treatment, while the ICRC 
has aired no complaints. Still, says another soldier, "They're a 
pain in the ass. We see them offering them cookies, hugging them 
like they're best buddies. They're undermining everything we're 
trying to do."

  What we're trying to do isn't exactly clear at this point. We 
are certainly interrogating the prisoners, though base sources 
won't divulge any information that's been gleaned. The prisoners 
will likely be formally charged and tried, though when I called 
a senior Pentagon source to find out by whom and when, the 
source said, "If you find out, will you please tell me?"

  ON SUNDAY, Rumsfeld visits, and we hope for illumination. 
Sitting on a bus on the tarmac, waiting for the secretary to 
emerge from his plane, we pass the time as journalists do, 
discussing the AP-style spelling of "bin Laden," speculating 
whether the prisoners will get an Internet cafe (one of them has 
asked for video games), and making fun of the fresh-meat 
Pentagon press corps, who are overdressed in heavy wools instead 
of our much cooler island linens.

  One of Rumsfeld's security agents mounts our bus, telling us the 
ground rules: no photos on the tarmac, no fighting, no hitting 
Rumsfeld in the head with a boom mike. After Rumsfeld tours Camp 
X-Ray with four senators and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, Richard Myers (who is so overshadowed by the secretary's 
rock star aura that one reporter has to ask who he is), Rumsfeld 
meets the press on Heartbreak Ridge. He gives the sort of hooah 
performance that has endeared him to both the troops and the 
press. While he remains as firm as ever that the detainees are 
"illegal combatants," not "prisoners of war," which would afford 
them more rights under the Geneva Convention, he nicely avoids 
plucking the only hair worth splitting--whether the captives' 
status is his call. (Human rights hawks say the matter should be 
decided by a "competent tribunal," whatever that is.)

  Even if it isn't up to Rumsfeld, the argument seems rather 
academic. It's hard to imagine anyone who has actually read the 
Geneva Convention wanting to confer POW status on alleged al 
Qaeda members. Doing so would not only make the terrorists 
eligible for repatriation to their home countries, but also 
would forbid their being punished for trying to escape, allow 
them to receive "scientific equipment" from home, and even 
confer upon them the right to dentures--in case they lost their 
teeth while, say, biting a guard. Most ludicrous, they would be 
afforded "advances of pay" in an amount "never ... inferior" to 
that which we pay our own armed forces. If you're a terrorist 
from Central Asia, it's not a bad deal: Kill Americans, get 
arrested, then get a pay raise from America.

  With all the global bellyaching about the detainees' right to 
humane treatment, it's hard to imagine them getting better 
treatment than they're already receiving. On my last day at 
Gitmo, all I have time to eat is a stale Ding Dong and a greasy 
plate of onion rings. My public affairs keepers couldn't care 
less. By contrast, for breakfast and lunch alone, the prisoners 
are served oatmeal, an orange, peanut butter, margarine, a 
"culturally appropriate" halal meal, and a giant snack pack 
containing Froot Loops, raisins, a Nature Valley granola bar, 
baked garlic bagel chips, and Bullseye barbecue-seasoned 
sunflower kernels. Still, the overseers of the prison are 
concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with 
their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just 
the way the prisoners like it back home.

  While we wait, we journalists have to stand in the hot sun most 
of the day. After hours, we are confined to our Consolidated 
Bachelor Quarters, sleeping four to a duplex room on cots, some 
without pillows or blankets. We aren't even allowed to go the 
beach, a few hundred yards away from our building (though, 
emboldened by the rum we imported from Puerto Rico, a colleague 
and I make a mad dash under a guard searchlight for the 
bathwater Caribbean anyway). Besides drinking, our only 
entertainment is a pool table--one cue is cracked, the other is 
missing its tip. The prisoners, by contrast, get to read their 
Korans, while novels and more "religious books" are on the way.

  At the end of their day, they get a good night's sleep in a 
single cell. At the end of our day, we are told that a C-141 
(the same plane that transported the detainees) just became 
available, and we are prematurely hustled off so the military 
can dump us in Nowheresville, New Jersey, on a Sunday night 
after every rental car place in the state has closed.

  Perhaps the international community is right. The treatment 
being meted out at Guantanamo is inhumane. To see for yourself, 
don't bother canvassing Camp X-Ray prisoners. Just get a Gitmo 
press pass.

  
Matt Labash is senior writer at The Weekly Standard.


   Tokyo irked by US stance on Kyoto

 



  TOKYO - Coral reefs will die from water that's too hot. Polar 
bears will have less room to roam, crowding some of them out of 
existence. Birds will start flying an extra mile north each 
year, and may starve when they get there.

  These are among the dire possible consequences of global 
warming, say climate-change experts. At no time was it clearer 
that countries should take steps to slow this process than when 
150 countries signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1997.

  But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not 
ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit 
Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate 
effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.

  For Japan, a nation of nature-lovers, the shaping of the accord 
on their soil was a source of pride - and proof that they were 
still relevant players on the world stage.

  "It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest 
gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present 
something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework 
convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the 
Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization 
representing about 150 Japanese groups.

  The clash over how to stop global warming while allowing 
sluggish economies to prosper occurs at an awkward point in 
US-Japanese relations. US analysts looking east say that as 
Japan's economic dominance in Asia diminishes, so will the 
importance of the US-Japan relationship as a whole.

  The US Department of Defense recently left Japan off its list of 
nations contributing to the post-Sept. 11 war on terror. 
Realizing the accidental slight, the US later apologized for 
overlooking Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's efforts - 
considered tremendously ambitious here - to alter the 
interpretation of Japan's post-World War II pacifist 
constitution in order to dispatch warships for noncombat 
support.

  During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently 
balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto 
agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts" 
on the part of the US.

  While there are no protesters in the streets, there is an air of 
indignation here over Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on 
something that effects the whole globe.

  Among the Kiko Network's handouts is a pamphlet with a cartoon 
of the world. On one end, Koizumi defensively holds up the Kyoto 
Protocol. On the other, a fiendish-looking Bush seizes a weeping 
globe in his monster-size hands.

  In the eyes of Japan and many US allies, the Bush 
administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol is 
one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly 
unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on 
America. From pulling out of Kyoto - which is in the process of 
being ratified by the European Union - to labeling Iran, Iraq, 
and North Korea an "axis of evil" and prime targets in the next 
phase of the war, America's allies are seeing in the US a 
growing tendency to act first and consult later.

  The Bush administration is offering its own alternative plan, 
the Clear Skies and Global Climate Change Initiatives, which 
aides say are more market-sensitive and will reduce the worst 
air pollutants by 70 percent while finding a strategy to cut 
greenhouse gas intensity by 18 percent over the next 10 years.

  But environmental advocates say Bush's alternative will allow 
the US to continue to increase the amount of gas it emits. They 
fear that, because the US is forging its own way, smaller 
nations that are expected to ratify the Kyoto Protocol could 
start backing out. This could lead to a two-tier system in which 
the US and a few others - Australia and Canada may follow suit - 
will choose their own targets, while the rest of the world will 
be limited to the stricter Kyoto limits.

  
Not everyone in Japan is upset with Bush's alternative.

  Japanese industry has already gone through vigorous 
energy-saving - and thus environmentally friendly - drives after 
the two energy crises of the 1970s and 1980s, says Mitsuru 
Shinozaki, a spokesman for Keidanren, the country's most 
influential business lobby. After the Earth Summit of 10 years 
ago, he says, Japan discussed and implemented a self-action plan 
to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions. "Any further policy to 
reduce emissions," he says "will hurt Japanese industrial 
competitiveness."

  
back to top

  
Untitled


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.


   Not 'gonna be a long, long time' till you can be a rocket man

 



  The International Space Station is not exactly the 
Waldorf-Astoria. And a Russian Soyuz capsule will never boast 
the creature comforts of a stretch limo.

  But that doesn't bother an increasing number of well-heeled 
executives and celebrities willing to pay millions of dollars 
and spend a few months training in exchange for a quick trip to 
orbit.

  Welcome to the dawn of space tourism, where opportunities to 
view spaceship Earth from aboveare rare, visions of the future 
are grand, and Everyman seems willing to shed planet Earth, if 
briefly. The latest "tour-o-naut" to buckle up and place his 
tray table in the upright, locked position is South African 
venture capitalist Mark Shuttleworth. He launched with two 
cosmonauts on a space-station resupply flight yesterday from the 
Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. He is the second fare-paying 
visitor to the station, following in the bootsteps of Dennis 
Tito, a US businessman who took that same trip last year.

  They aren't alone. "Another eight to 10 people have expressed 
interest" in a Soyuz trip to the space station, notes Tereza 
Predescu of Space Adventures, an Arlington, Va., company that 
arranges the flights.

  
'N space?

  Russia's next resupply flight is scheduled for October, and two 
Americans are vying for the passenger seat: former National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration associate administrator 
Lori Garver and boy-band 'N Sync's Lance Bass. Aerosmith rocker 
Steven Tyler also is reportedly eyeing a future flight.

  "There is a lot of pent-up demand, at least emotionally" among a 
large number of people to journey into space, says John Logsdon, 
of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University in 
Washington, D.C.

  For example, in 2000, Harris Interactive surveyed Americans' and 
Canadians' willingness to travel into space as tourists. 
Overall, 86 percent of the 2,022 respondents would be interested 
in a trip to space. Extrapolating from the results, Space 
Adventures, which commissioned the study, estimates that 10,000 
people a year would be willing to pay $100,000 apiece for a 
quick up-and-down suborbital flight, a la Mercury astronaut Alan 
Shepard. That translates into a $1 billion-a-year business.

  If they received the trip as a promotion or gift, 80 percent of 
the respondents said they'd take an intercontinental 
space-plane, 70 percent would take a space-station tour or an 
orbital flight, and 74 percent would be willing to take a 
suborbital journey.

  For space tourism to truly take off, however, several things 
must happen, says Frank Sietzen of the Space Transportation 
Association, an aerospace-industry group in Arlington, Va.

  "You need a strong, growing US space transportation system, and 
the federal ... decision that it's in the national interest to 
fund ... a second generation reusable launch vehicle to supplant 
the shuttle at a sufficiently low cost that it would be 
commercially viable," he says. Out of that effort would come the 
rocket or rockets that would service commercial passenger 
flights.

  He likens the effort needed to one the US Air Force undertook in 
1951, when it began developing an aerial tanker to refuel jet 
fighters and bombers. The result, he continues, was the KC-135, 
known commercially as the Boeing 707, the first commercial jet 
to be used worldwide.

  The government is moving in that direction with NASA's Space 
Launch Initiative. The agency has budgeted $4.8 billion through 
2006 for the development of safer, more reliable, and cheaper 
follow-ons to the shuttle. It looking beyond the SLI to a 
program designed to develop a third-generation of launch 
vehicles.

  Others are not waiting for the government to act. Some 20 
companies and groups worldwide are in a competition for a $10 
million purse offered to the first firm that can build and fly a 
two-stage, reusable rocket that can carry three people on a 
suborbital flight and be refurbished for its next flight within 
two weeks. Yesterday, a Canadian team paraded a mockup a 
60-foot-long "Canadian Arrow" through the streets of Manhattan 
in a pitch coinciding with Mr. Shuttleworth's launch.

  Known as the X Prize, the contest is modeled after the prizes 
that stimulated growth of commercial aviation early in the last 
century, says X Prize Foundation president Peter Diamandis.

  
Modern barnstormers

  Noting that Charles Lindbergh's record-breaking trans-Atlantic 
solo flight was a response to the offer of an aviation prize, he 
adds that within six years of that flight, commercial passenger 
flights became common. He expects a similar commercial response 
after his prize is issued.

  "People paid what for them were large sums of money" to fly with 
early-20th century barnstormers "to see the world from 2,000 
feet," he says. He expects a similar response when an X Prize 
winner emerges. Indeed, Space Adventures already has payments 
from roughly 100 customers willing to fly with astronautical 
barnstormers once a winner emerges, perhaps as early as 2004 or 
2005.

  The contest already is stimulating a range of related efforts, 
ranging from states trying to set up space ports for tourism 
flights, to Federal Aviation Administration development of 
licensing requirements for private commercial launch facilities 
and passenger operations.

  Where Dr. Diamandis sees relatively short-term opportunity, 
however, others suggest a viable space-tourism industry is still 
a decade or more away. "It will happen," he says, "but not in 
the time frame that will please tourism's advocates."


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.


   Veni, Vidi, Venezuela

 



  FIGHTING tyranny with tyranny clearly didn't work in oil-giant 
Venezuela last week. And now coup-plotting military officers and 
the reinstalled president, Hugo Chavez, need to show Latin 
America that their tyrannical tactics are at an end.

  President Chavez - a former Army coup-meister himself, who was 
elected three years ago - has abused his popular mandate with 
heavy-handed measures based on a Constitution largely rewritten 
by himself and his supporters. He has sometimes talked of 
remaining president past the year 2020. And his economic 
promises to the poor are in shreds, while his diplomatic 
flirtation with leftist world dictators only hints at his 
inclinations to gain more power.

  But Latin America has moved beyond coups, and this pivotal 
nation in a hemisphere of democracies has the means to remove 
Mr. Chavez by constitutional and especially nonviolent means.

  His two-day removal from office began when he tried to stack the 
board of the state-owned oil company in his favor. The company's 
executives revolted, threatening a cutoff of oil. That was a 
catalyst for pent-up opposition to Chavez. Business groups and 
labor unions joined in a giant protest, perhaps knowing that 
portions of the military were on their side. When gunshots were 
fired during a march on the presidential palace last Thursday, 
killing more than a dozen, military leaders forced Chavez to 
step aside. But then international pressure and renewed domestic 
support for Chavez forced the generals to let him take office 
again.

  The Bush administration all but welcomed the coup, tarnishing 
the US role as a champion of democracy. It, too, has a reason to 
repent.


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.


   Venezuela's new dawn

 



  
BBC correspondent in Caracas

  Venezuelans awoke on Friday to a country transformed by the 
dramatic and violent events of the last 24 hours, which left at 
least 11 people dead and more than 80 injured.

  A general strike and an escalating oil industry stoppage that 
had threatened to cripple the country's economy were no more - 
and the country not only had a new president, business leader 
Pedro Carmona, but a new name.

  The country was no longer the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 
in honour of South American independence hero Simon Bolivar, one 
of former president Hugo Chavez's heroes.

  Now it is simply the Republic of Venezuela. The name change was 
Mr Carmona's first act as head of the transition government.

  His second was to announce the end of the three-day general 
strike he had called with the head of the Confederation of 
Venezuelan Workers (CTV) leader Carlos Ortega in support of 
protesting managers from state oil company PDVSA.

  
Shellshocked

  Managers were striking because Mr Chavez had filled the 
company's board of directors with his supporters.

  Despite the announcement, traffic was lighter than a normal 
Friday and many Venezuelans did not turn up for work.

  The country is in shellshock. On Thursday a peaceful rally of 
more than 100,000 mainly middle class Venezuelans had ended in 
bloodshed.

  As marchers called for Mr Chavez's resignation outside 
Miraflores, the presidential palace, shots were fired into the 
crowd. Eyewitness Euridice Ledesma said snipers fired on the 
marchers from rooftops near the palace.

  Film footage also caught armed supporters of Mr Chavez firing 
indiscriminately at the marchers.

  Later army chief, General Efrain Vasquez said some "Bolivarian" 
groups were indeed armed.

  "It was horrible. These groups were shooting at defenceless 
people," said photographer Luis Gomez.

  
Chavez's last day

  At the time, Mr Chavez was addressing the nation to assure them 
his government respected people's right to demonstrate and 
freedom of the press.

  Moments later he announced that he had taken five national 
television channels off the air for "telling lies about the 
government".

  The shootings were the final straw for the military. A 
succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they 
supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".

  As tanks surrounded Miraflores, Mr Chavez was holed up with 
senior military officers in a bid to save his presidency.

  In the early hours of the morning, chief of the armed forces 
General Lucas Rincon held a brief news conference to say Mr 
Chavez's resignation had been demanded and accepted.

  Earlier his wife, Marisabel, and children had left Caracas in 
the cover of darkness on a PDVSA jet for Barquisimeto in western 
Venezuela.

  Mr Chavez is currently detained at Fuerte Tiuna army base in 
Caracas and could face possible charges for his role in the 
killings.

  News of Mr Chavez's resignation caused hundreds of flag-waving 
and whistle-blowing Venezuelans to surround the city's air force 
base, La Carlota, in the hope of seeing Mr Chavez' departure 
from the country.

  Mr Chavez's exit has left Venezuela with a power vacuum and no 
obvious long-term leader. The challenge now is to heal the deep 
social divisions that exist within the country.

  "I think people are happy because Chavez has fallen. But there's 
also a feeling of uncertainty about how the country's obvious 
problems are going to be solved," said Ms Ledesma.


Copyright @ BBC

	
US Secretary of State Colin Powell, described as one of the few enlightened officials in President Bush's administration, is trying to "patch up" President Bush's statements, especially his latest one in which he made reckless threats at the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea. A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them." He added: "We are prepared to initiate a dialogue, and we want to work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes." 
	
	
 These are fine words, but they do not reflect the reality, because the hard-line wing in the US administration comprising Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, and National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice have the final say in running affairs at the White House, and have direct influence on President Bush. 
	
	
 Oddly enough, speculations swirled in Washington that Powell listened to President Bush's speech and his threats to "the axis of evil" like any other US citizen. He had not read the speech before President Bush delivered it, as he was supposed to do by virtue of his post. The fact that he subsequently denied these speculations does not mean they are baseless. 
	
	
 At any rate, Secretary Powell's remark about the US administration's readiness to enter dialogue with these "evil" states and with Washington's friends on ways of dealing with them involves some contradictions. For he affirmed in the first speech that there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors. 
	
	
 The current US administration will consult with no one, not even its closest allies, whether in Europe or its followers in the Third World, particularly in the Arab world. The US administration has already decided to "punish" any country it believes poses a danger to the Hebrew State. It lumped North Korea with Iran and Iraq as part of the "axis of evil" only to mislead Arabs and Muslims and to create the impression that Islam is not alone targeted. 
	
	
 The United States is these days ruled by an alliance between two main lobbies, the arms lobby and the Zionist lobby, which sees the world through the eyes of Ari'el Sharon and his extremist government. We therefore have to expect the worst in the near future. 
	
	
 President Bush is facing a recession and an economic crisis. He does not want to repeat his father's mistake, being defeated in the next elections because of economic factors. He is therefore planning to trigger wars here and there to revive the flagging arms industry. 
	
	
 The United States is currently run by a typical Texan mentality, which is closer to that of cowboys than to a civilized mentality that believes in dialogue and coexistence among peoples. This mentality simultaneously raises apprehensions and resentment, because international economic prosperity can be built on stability, not wars. A catastrophe would engulf every country if the US arms industry progressed at the expense of the world's security and stability. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Kitakyushu, Japan, Feb. 12 Kyodo -- A 3,986-ton Panamanian cargo ship heading to Taiwan from South Korea sank in the East China Sea late Monday, leaving one sailor dead and another of the 20-member crew missing, the Japan Coast Guard said Tuesday. 
	
	
 Coast Guard officials said the vessel, Triumph Kaohsiung, sank at around 11:30 p.m. at a point about 110 kilometers west of Goto islands in western Nagasaki Prefecture. 
	
	
 Officials said 19 crew members were plucked up from the sea and one died later. 
	
	
 According to the Triumph Kaohsiung crew, the vessel was flooded with water and the engine stopped at around 7 p.m. Monday, and the ship sank four and a half hours later. 
	
	
 The ship was heading to the southern Taiwan city Kaohsiung with a cargo of steel products that was loaded in the South Korean port Pohang. 
	
	
 Coast Guard officials said Japanese coast guard vessels plucked 12 survivors from a lifeboat and seven others from the sea. One of the rescued sailors died later. 
	
	
 Japanese coast guard aircraft and patrol boats were in the area looking for the missing sailor. 
	
	
 The ship's crew consisted of 11 Chinese, one Taiwanese, two Indonesians and six Myanmarese.	


	
United Nations, New York, Nov 11, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami and his Venezuelan counterpart Hugo Chavez here Saturday cited cooperation among OPEC member countries as the key to forestalling further oil price declines. The Iranian president also hailed Chavez's recent efforts in travelling to OPEC and non-OPEC member countries, in a bid to garner support for propping up the sagging crude prices. Khatami, who had met with Chavez on the sidelines of a UN General Assembly session, also explained the ongoing Afghan crisis in the wake of the US-led strikes as well as the Islamic Republic's stance on the September 11 terror attacks in Washington and New York. He reiterated his call for a global peace coalition, based on justice, to stem the roots of terrorism. "Forming a world-wide coalition based on peace and justice to eradicate the ominous phenomenon of terrorism is a must," Khatami said. Chavez, whose country currently heads the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), said that Venezuela's recent efforts in the form of his whirlwind trips to OPEC and non-OPEC member countries, were in line with the interests of all the oil producing countries. He also described cooperation among OPEC and non-OPEC countries as a boost to their national interests. Chavez voiced "the Latin American concern" on the ongoing crisis in the Middle East, saying Caracas was following the international stance on the fight against terrorism, violence and intrigues. OPEC is due to hold a meeting in Vienna on Wednesday to discuss the widely expected production cut. He also called for further expansion of bilateral cooperation between Tehran and Caracas in various international fields, such as OPEC and the Group of 77 (G77) of the world developing countries. Khatami is currently in New York to attend a special session of the UN General Assembly on 'Dialogue Among Civilizations' to have an international convention on the theme approved. The United Nations designated 2001, as the Year of 'Dialogue among Civilizations' on President Khatami's initiative.	


	
KABUL, Feb 10 (AFP) - Interim Afghan leader Hamid Karzai is to travel to the United Arab Emirates on Sunday, completing visits to the three countries that recognized the Taliban regime before September 11. 
	
	
 Kabul announced the Afghan embassy in Islamabad would reopen next week after Karzai's historic fence-mending visit to Pakistan on Friday. He has also made an official trip to Saudi Arabia. 
	
	
 In another step to heal festering wounds, Karzai on Saturday pardoned 350 captured Taliban soldiers, saying they were "innocent" and part of a general amnesty that allowed foot-soldiers to go free. 
	
	
 But the Afghan interim government branded Mullah Abdul Wakil Mutawakel, the Taliban foreign minister who surrendered to US forces in Kandahar Friday, as a war criminal who should be put on trial. 
	
	
 Taliban leaders "created misery for our people. The world has suffered because of what they did ... They deserve justice and to be treated as war criminals because they supported terrorism," Interim Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah said. 
	
	
 One of the closest aides to reclusive Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar, he is seen as a potential source of crucial evidence against Omar and bin Laden, the chief suspect of the September 11 terror attacks who has eluded a US-led manhunt so far. 
	
	
 The United States meanwhile brought another 34 al-Qaeda and Taliban captives to a detention camp on a US naval base on Cuba Saturday, bringing the total of detainees held there to 220. 
	
	
 The new arrivals were dressed in standard-issue zippered orange jumpsuits. Because each was bound and shackled, the blue jackets they wore on the 27-hour flight were removed by scissors-wielding US troops as the prisoners descended from the plane into the tropical heat. 
	
	
 In Geneva the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said it and Washington were at odds over Washington's decision not to recognise captured Taliban and al-Qaeda fighters as prisoners of war. 
	
	
 "There are divergent views between the US and the ICRC on the procedures which apply on how to determine that the persons detained are not entitled to prisoner of war status," the ICRC said in a statement. 
	
	
 "The US and the ICRC will pursue their dialogue on this issue." 
	
	
 US President George W. Bush decided Thursday that the 1949 Geneva Conventions would apply to captured Taliban fighters taken from Afghanistan to a US military base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but not to al-Qaeda members there. 
	
	
 However, Washington said that neither group would be accorded prisoner of war status. 
	
	
 Concern also continued over signs that the US was expanding its war on terror to other countries. 
	
	
 While taking care to avoid directly criticizing Bush, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said it was unrealistic to see the world in terms of good and evil states. 
	
	
 In an interview published by the Swiss daily newspaper Blick on Saturday, Annan was asked about Bush's statement describing Iran, Iraq and North Korea as part of an "axis of evil." 
	
	
 Annan said, without specifically mentioning the US: "You can not divide the world between the good and the evil, because between them there are shades of gray." 
	
	
 EU commissioner Chris Patten, also speaking in a newspaper interview, accused Bush's administration of a dangerously "absolutist and simplistic" stance. 
	
	
 It was time European governments spoke up and stopped Washington before it went into "unilateralist overdrive", he told the British newspaper The Guardian. 
	
	
 In Ottawa, the Group of Seven industrialized nations called for intensified efforts to freeze terrorist financing and reported that at least 100 million dollars had been frozen since September 11. 
	
	
 "Significant results have already been achieved," said the final communique of finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States. 
	
	
 "Since September 11, almost 150 countries and jurisdictions have issued orders to freeze terrorist assets and over 100 million dollars has been frozen worldwide," it said after the two-day gathering in Ottawa and in nearby Quebec. 
	
	
 In another sign of progress in cracking terrorist networks, court sources in Paris said an Islamic militant under investigation for an alleged plot to attack the French city of Strasbourg had admitted meeting two other terrorist suspects at a training camp in Afghanistan. 
	
	
 Yacine Akhnouche, arrested Monday, told police he had met suspected shoe bomber Richard Reid and Zacarias Moussaoui at a training camp in Afghanistan in 2000, during one of several stays in the country. 
	
	
 Moussaoui, a Frenchman of Moroccan descent, is the first person charged in connection with the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington. 
	
	
 Reid, a British national, was arrested after allegedly trying to light a fuse attached to explosives in his shoes while on a Paris to Miami flight on December 22. 
	
	
 Karzai meanwhile continued to wrestle with security problems as rival warlords tried to fill the power vacuum left by the fall of the Taliban. 
	
	
 On Saturday he met representatives of two warlords who clashed violently last week over who should be governor in eastern Paktia province. 
	
	
 "This is a very serious matter and Karzai wanted himself to be involved in finding a solution," Deputy Border Affairs Minister Mirza Ali told AFP. 
	
	
 Fifty people were killed in a two-day battle when Karzai's appointed governor, Padsha Khan, sent his forces to secure the governor's house in the provincial capital Gardez. 
	
	
 They were driven out by rival warlord Saif Ullah, who has refused to give up power. 
	
	
 Karzai has blamed Khan for the fighting and said it was "one more reason why we should finish warlordism in this country." 
	
	
 The clash has called into question Karzai's ability to govern beyond the Kabul area and bolstered his appeal for the deployment of more international troops in his country. 
	
	
 The search for kidnapped US journalist Daniel Pearl stretched into its 18th day in Pakistan with no sign of the Wall Street Journal correspondent, who was abducted while researching a story on Islamic militancy. 
	
	
	


	
Following the end of the Cold War, the United States has become the world's sole superpower and the trend of pragmatism in its foreign policy has become clearer and clearer. Pragmatism is, in the first place, the United States' traditional policy. After coming to power, unilateralism and pragmatism have become Bush's main foreign policy line. Alternate use of and complementary nature of pragmatism and unilateralism constitute the characteristics of the Bush administration's diplomacy. 
	
	
 Once coming to power, Bush insisted on deploying the National Missile Defense System [NMD]. The international community and even US western allies, including US neighbor Canada, have consistently opposed the plan. Despite the opposition, Bush went it alone. One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick. At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force. He even claimed that to develop the NMD, the United States would be even prepared to scrap the ABM. Over the past year, Bush increased funds for research and testing for the N!
MD and accelerated the test frequency of the anti-missile system. Even after the adoption of the resolution on "maintaining and abiding by the "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty" on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly, the United States still persisted in carrying out a fifth missile interception test. In a word, the US development of the NMD is for the purpose of "attacking other countries and at the same time preventing other countries from attacking it," thereby genuinely securing its status of being the "sole super power." 
	
	
 The Sino-US plane collision event that occurred on 1 April can best illustrate the US alternate application of the "two-isms" in its diplomacy. In the plane collision event, if one goes by the US logic, only the US spy plane is permitted to spy at other people's doorsteps; the host, on the other hand, does not even have the right to look after its doors and to protect its yard. The responsibility for the event, in which a Chinese plane crashed and a Chinese pilot perished, lies completely with the US side. The US side not only refused to apologize to China but also claimed that "US crew members were detained by the Chinese side." It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology. But after the Chinese side released all the US crew members, major US political figures changed their stance immediately and threatened to use human rights, trade, and Olympics hosting issues to "retaliate" against China. 
	
	
 Since coming to power, Bush, proceeding from the US immediate interests, has also adopted the pragmatism and unilateralism position with regard to international treaties. This March, catering to the interests of the US oil and coal barons who have made large political donations to the Republican Party, Bush announced, without prior consultations with its allies, that the United States would not enforce the "Kyoto Protocol" which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world. This announcement was met with unanimous condemnation by the international media. 
	
	
 In July, the Bush administration decided to let the "Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty" "freeze" in the Senate. Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention. 
	
	
 The Bush administration either refuses to sign, ratify, or implement international treaties or asks for their revision. It only wants the international treaties that benefit the US security and economy and globalization. It does not want anything to do with the international treaties, mechanisms, and organizations that restrict or prevent US freedom. It does not want anything to do with countries and organizations that do not follow its orders or that always cause troubles to it. 
	
	
 After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people. Supported by the world, the United States launched the "war against terrorism" of this century. Bush stressed that the war is not only the "US war" but also a "world war." The United States views itself as a "major force of anti-terrorism," for in the world only the United States has the capability to carry out the global war against terrorism. Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime." The United States wants all the countries in the world to stand behind it in the fight against terrorism and decides which country is its enemy or friend on the basis of that country's attitude toward it. It is in fact like using multilateral diplomacy to enhance US unilateralism. But the United States obviously practices pragmatism in its treatment of Pakistan -- a frontline state in the fight against Pakistan. Before the 11 September event, the United States kept its distance from Pakistan and imposed sanctions on it. But after declaring a war against terrorism the United States not only drew Pakistan to its side but also provided aid to it. Whether the United States will continue to treat Pakistan in a responsible manner, it is anybody's guess. 
	
	
 Attachments: rw1205us.pdf	


	
In an antiterrorist war that at the time was initially launched as Operation Infinite Justice, it is infinitely difficult to reconcile oneself to the pictures of chained and humiliated Taliban and al-Qaida prisoners at the U.S. Guantanamo base on Cuba. The pictures resemble an attempt to satisfy a primitive thirst for revenge and convince the Americans that the Bush administration has not only succeeded in removing a regime of religious madmen in out-of-the-way Afghanistan, but also in taking prisoner some of those responsible for the terrorist acts on that day in September. 
	
	
 The U.S. and most recently the British governments reject the suggestion that the prisoners are being harmed, but this does not alter the fact that the pictures of hooded prisoners in chains are in themselves enough to paint a picture of a United States that in the name of self-righteousness - and equally worryingly: without any great amount of debate - has allowed itself to infringe international rules. 
	
	
 This impression is reinforced by the fact that for the time being at least the United States has ignored the Geneva Convention and refused to treat those taken prisoner as prisoners of war - something to which they have a right - until a competent court has decided differently. 
	
	
 Instead the superpower has entered a legal fog where the prisoners have been stamped with a nonsense term in international law: "battlefield prisoners." As such they face the prospect of being subjected to the due course of law and in the final analysis perhaps sentenced to death in closed military courts instead of in open courts, as is the right of prisoners of war under the terms of the Geneva Convention. 
	
	
 For most people it will of course be difficult to mobilize any great degree of understanding for those responsible for the bloody terrorism in the United States on that day in September, but what is at issue here is that at the present moment principles are at stake that could have far-reaching repercussions for the future war against terrorism. 
	
	
 With its behavior, therefore, the United States is not only compromising the image of the war against terrorism as an expression of a higher form of justice, but also of itself as an unshakeable defender of this same justice. This will undoubtedly rub off on the superpower's allies, including Denmark. And for this reason, too, they have a moral duty to speak out, as Swedish Foreign Minister Anna Lindh, among others, did yesterday. Otherwise they face the risk not only of undermining the legitimacy of their own antiterrorism war at present, but also of sending out a signal that despots around the world will know how to exploit. 
	
	
 Many of them have already demonstrated great skill in their own behavior when it comes to exploiting the West's fear of terrorism. 
	
	
	


	
As prisoners from Al-Qa'ida and Taliban are being transported to the cells of the US Guantanamo base in Cuba, the United States' war on terrorism enters a new stage that is completely different from that of armed confrontation in Afghanistan. 
	
	
 Amidst the heat of military battles in Afghanistan, and on the background of the double crime that hit the United States, international opinion is now willing to overlook some inhumane practices that were made on this or that front. However, the situation has changed fundamentally since the batches of Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners started arriving one after the other to Guatanamo base shackled and caged in cages that are no longer than eight feet and wider than six. The attention of the world moved from Afghanistan to Cuba to follow what Amnesty International considers an "uncomfortable situation" for the detainees. This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity. 
	
	
 It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners. 
	
	
 The continued US ambiguity in using the title of prisoners, and specifically prisoners of war or "illegitimate" combatants, and the possibility of trying them in private and closed martial court, do not help the United States maintain international sympathy with its war. 
	
	
 As the campaign of Western criticism of the United States heightens, it has become urgent for Washington to clarify its stand on treating the prisoners and their destiny so that it would not be recorded in history that the number one democracy in the war won the war on terrorism in weeks and lost the reputation of commitment to principles of human justice that it took centuries to gain. 
	
	
	


	
Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen (Liberal Party) has voiced his approval of the U.S. treatment of the 144 al-Qaida prisoners at the U.S. Guantanamo military base on Cuba. 
	
	
 "The U.S. Government has announced that the United States will respect its international commitments," Fogh Rasmussen said at his weekly press conference on Tuesday [22 January]. 
	
	
 He points out that the United States has allowed the Red Cross to inspect conditions at the Guantanamo base. 
	
	
 Criticism From the Red Cross 
	
	
 He fails to mention, however, that on the international stage the Red Cross has subsequently criticized the U.S. treatment of prisoners. 
	
	
 EU foreign affairs spokesman Javier Solana, among others, has also criticized the United States for not recognizing the al-Qaida prisoners as prisoners of war as understood in the Geneva Convention. 
	
	
 The Swedish Government has also expressed concern about the prisoners' rights. 
	
	
 Fogh: They Must Be Given a Fair Trial 
	
	
 "The prisoners must be treated with respect for their integrity and religion, and they must be given a fair trial," Fogh Rasmussen says. 
	
	
 On Monday Liberal Party foreign affairs spokesman Troels Lund Poulsen said that the debate on prisoners' rights is "an intellectual discussion." 
	
	
 Per Stig Moller: Give Them Rights 
	
	
 Foreign Minister Per Stig Moller (Conservative People's Party) is urging the United States to guarantee the prisoners the status of prisoners of war and in consequence protection under the terms of the Geneva Convention. 
	
	
 "I expect the United States to satisfy the requirements of the international conventions," Per Stig Moller said at a press conference in Berlin on Monday. 
	
	
 " Social Democratic Party: Raise Denmark's Voice 
	
	
 The Social Democratic Party takes the view that the Danish Government should raise its voice against the United States. 
	
	
 "I do not have all the information, but there are some questionable aspects in the U.S. approach," political spokesman Mogens Lykketoft (Social Democratic Party) told Ritzau Bureau. 
	
	
 "Of course the United States has a point when it says that it can be difficult to decide who are terrorists and who are prisoners of war. We must focus on the treatment of them." 
	
	
 The Socialist People's Party is sending an "urgent call" to the government to deliver official criticism to the United States. 
	
	
 "It cannot be the duty of the Danish Government to applaud everything that the Americans do. Even though we support their action, we should criticize this form of treatment of prisoners," Socialist People's Party Chairman Holger K. Nielsen said. 
	
	
 He will now ask the foreign minister to give a written reply outlining the government's position on the issue. 
	
	
 Danish People's Party: Are They Danes? 
	
	
 The Danish People's Party sees no reason to criticize the United States. 
	
	
 "To begin with, I have great confidence that what the Americans are doing in relation to these prisoners is reasonable. I can imagine that the United States has had good reasons for transporting them to Cuba," foreign affairs spokesman Peter Skaarup (Danish People's Party) says. 
	
	
 As long as no Danes are involved, the Danish People's Party does not think that Denmark should interfere. 
	
	
 "This could of course become necessary if a Dane were involved. Otherwise it must be a matter between the United States and the countries which have citizens who are directly affected," Peter Skaarup said, alluding to the United Kingdom and Sweden. 
	
	
	


	
ANKARA, Dec 15 (A.A) - Interior Minister Rustu Kazim Yucelen released a decree on Saturday, and announced measures to be taken against illegal migration by sea. 
	
	
 The decree said that human smuggling incidents from the Turkish coasts to Greek islands, Italy and France increased recently due to economic, social and political reasons. 
	
	
 It said that the Coast Guard units had intercepted a total of 6 thousand 743 foreigners since January 1, 1996. 2,816 of these foreigners were captured in the first 11 months of 2001. 
	
	
 The Coast Guard Command has been working on a report to give detailed information about its activities against human smuggling and number of foreigners intercepted between January 1 and November 26, 2001. 
	
	
 According to the report, Turkish and Greek flagged ships, fishing boats and speed boats were used by human smugglers. 
	
	
 ``Most of the illegal migration incidents by sea happened in western provinces of Izmir, Aydin and Mugla. 28 out of 63 incidents were reported in Bodrum township of Mugla. These incidents generally increase in spring and fall. Turkish citizens from southern and southeastern provinces accounted for 31 percent. Iraqi and Afghan immigrants followed them. Having regard to the fact that 95.1 percent of foreign immigrants were coming from African and Middle Eastern countries, it becomes more difficult to prevent illegal migration from under developed countries to European countries via Turkey,`` it added.	


	
Spanish daily urges caution in judging USA's treatment of suspects 
	
	
 Text of unsigned editorial, "Treatment of the prisoners", by Spanish newspaper ABC web site on 22|January 
	
	
 The dissemination of some photos taken of a group of detainees in Guantanamo has aroused international controversy. Critics condemn the inhumane nature of the treatment the prisoners are receiving, handcuffed, immobilized with shackles, subjected to sensory deprivation and confined to minute cells. If these accusations are confirmed, the only possible definition will be torture and the violation of human rights. However, we may be witnessing a distortion of reality, and even in some cases pure falsehoods. The photos were sent voluntarily to the press by the American authorities, who clarified that they depicted a group of 20 dangerous prisoners who had recently arrived at the base and undergone a process of identification prior to their confinement. These were in no way their normal living conditions. But the decisive fact is the presence for days of the International Committee of the Red Cross, which is preparing a report and which, as usual, has refused to make any statements. It will speak in its report. Herein lies the difference. In the countries in which torture is systematically carried out, for example Cuba or China, inspection by international organizations is not permitted. The result of the report will have to be taken into account before political and moral judgments of guilty or not guilty are made. For the time being, the members of the British government who interviewed three prisoners of their nationality have received no complaints about the treatment they are receiving. Indications exist that the system to which the prisoners are subjected is excessively harsh. The United States government does not help dispel the suspicions when it refuses to consider them prisoners of war and therefore to apply the Geneva Convention to them. Nor does it seem proper to cite the fact that the base is not on American soil because it is a rented base. Backing from a majority of the public would not serve, either, as justification for the possible excesses and violations of rights. But for the time being, what exist are indications and shadows of suspicion which must materialize or be dispelled through knowledge of the facts from the relevant reports. It is another matter to launch into scandal or anti-Americanism. In any case, the attitude of the American authorities has nothing to do with the one previously and currently displayed by dictatorships and totalitarian systems, including communist ones, which permit neither inspection nor the dissemination of photographs. But this enormous difference is not enough. It must be known as soon as possible whether or not terror has been established in Guantanamo. 
	
	
	


	
For its own reasons, which are linked to its interests and, naturally, to Israel's interests, the United States chose to put intensive pressure on the Palestinian Authority. It wanted the PA to meet difficult, even impossible, security conditions. It also tried, through this pressure, to remove the legitimacy of the PA and its chairman Yasir Arafat under the pretext of terrorism or support for terrorism. This US position, which is fully biased to Israel, strengthened Israeli Prime Minister Ari'el Sharon's attempts to suppress national Palestinian ambitions and achieve his declared objective of establishing Israeli security on the rubble of the legitimate Palestinian rights. 
	
	
 It would have perhaps been logical and acceptable if Washington had demanded a mutual and concurrent cessation of the ongoing violence between the Palestinians and the Israelis and called on Israel not to exploit the calm to open the files of security revenge through assassinations and arrests. It would have been logical and acceptable if Washington had asked Israel to announce its commitment to the principle of withdrawal from the territories it occupied in 1967 and to end the settlement activity. Such demands constitute the strong base for bringing about calm and stability, putting a final end to violence and terrorism, and turning a new leaf toward fruitful negotiations leading to a just peace acceptable by all sides. 
	
	
 The situation and its tragic repercussions are being viewed only from the Israeli perspective. The killing of hundreds of Palestinians and the increase in the number of martyrs among children are being ignored. And the destruction of homes, installations, and PA infrastructure is being overlooked. This does not serve the interest of peace and the security of the peoples of the region in the long run. On the contrary, it heightens the sense of frustration among all sectors of the Palestinian people and damages the credibility of the United States as a sponsor of the peace process, indeed as an effective partner in the settlement negotiations from the start of the peace process in the late eighties until this process faltered as a result of Israel's intransigence after Sharon came to power. 
	
	
 The United States realizes that the Palestinians are serious in their efforts to achieve a just peace. The Palestinians left no avenue unexplored in their quest for a settlement that enables them to regain their legitimate rights and provides all the peoples of the region, including the Israelis, with security and stability. It is, therefore, unfair to blame the PA for the tension, and sometimes violence, that takes place as a result of the Israeli oppressive measures and activities. Every oppressive or vindictive Israeli action has a Palestinian reaction that cannot be stopped. Before 1994, Israel was in control of all the occupied Palestinian territories and yet it was unable, despite all its forces, weapons, and measures, to achieve full and comprehensive quiet in the West Bank and Gaza throughout 27 years. 
	
	
 In this context, we must note the role of all Arab and international forces in curbing Israeli military operations against Palestinian cities and residential areas and in explaining the true picture of the situation to the United States. Certainly, the intensive efforts that our big sister, Egypt, made to bridle the Israeli oppressive activity and to warn the Israeli prime minister against targeting President Arafat and the PA are highly appreciated by the Palestinian people in particular and the Arab nation in general. 
	
	
	


	
Washington, January 26 (XINHUA) -- US Secretary of State Colin Powell has asked President George W. Bush to reverse the president's decision on al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees and declare the terrorists as prisoners of war under the Geneva Convention, the Washington Times reported on Saturday. 
	
	
 A four-page internal White House memorandum obtained by the Washington Times shows that Powell made the request and that Bush' s National Security Council plans to meet on the matter Monday morning. 
	
	
 Bush decided on January 18 that hundreds of Taliban and members of Usama bin Ladin's al-Qa'ida army are detainees, and not prisoners of war, and thus not subject to rights in the Geneva Convention. 
	
	
 "The secretary of state has requested that you reconsider that decision," White House Counsel Alberto Gonzales wrote in a memo to Bush. "Specifically, he has asked that you conclude that GPW (Geneva Convention II on the Treatment of Prisoners of War) does apply to both al-Qa'ida and the Taliban fighters." 
	
	
 Human rights groups and some European countries have protested Bush's decision, and have been critical of the living conditions for 158 detainees at the US Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
	
	
	


	
Islamabad, March 18, IRNA - Central Leader of Pakistan People Party (PPP) and former provincial minister of North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) Seyed Qamar Abbas has rejected US state department report on Human Rights in Iran and other countries, saying America has no right to make such a report as it is itself the violator of human rights. He told IRNA in an interview on Monday, "America has killed thousands of innocent people in almost all parts of the globe particularly in the Muslim world. America, in the guise of its so-called war on terror, has killed and injured thousands of innocent Afghans and the prisoners of war are maltreated." A couple of weeks ago, the US state department in its annual report had revealed that Iran, Pakistan and some other countries are the violators of human rights. "America has a double standard policy. It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized. He said those countries and nations which are independant in real sense of the world and do not take dictation from the US or accepts its supremacy are labelled as human rights violators. "Those who submit to its policies are showered upon favours," he added. "America always follows its interests. In its so-called war against terrorism and against weapons of mass destruction lies its covert motive and that is its strategic and economic interests," Abbas added. However, he hoped that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark. "They can see and observe the unjust and discriminatory policies of America. People do not believe whatever the America says," he concluded.	


	
France's Chirac says Argentina must make necessary choices 
	
	
 Text of report by French news agency AFP 
	
	
 Paris, 2 January: During a telephone conversation on Wednesday [2 January] with the director general of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Horst Koehler, President Jacques Chirac stressed the need for Argentina to be able to "make the choices" imposed on it by the crisis it is going through. Reporting on the conversation, Elysee [presidency] spokeswoman Catherine Colonna said that the head of state had "expressed the hope that the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future". "France, like its partners, is in contact with international financial institutions," the president said, "and is ready to support the action of the IMF with a view to attaining a solution to this crisis." Jacques Chirac, Mrs Colonna said, also raised with the IMF director general "the situation of a number of other countries, among them Lebanon in connection with the consolidation of economic reforms in this country, with which France has special ties"!
. 
	
	
	


	
Energy Secretary Ernesto Martens has admitted that it is unfeasible to guarantee the flow of revenues to the government if the Finance Secretariat maintains its estimate that the crude export platform in 2002 will average 1.825 million barrels per day, at a price of $17.00 per barrel. 
	
	
 "One would have to talk in depth with the Finance Secretariat's people to hear the criteria that they used to establish that benchmark," he claimed, declining to give details on the manner in which the federal government's secretariats establish the price of crude in the General Criteria for Economic Policy. 
	
	
 In fact, Martens admitted that this volume of crude exports has not been achieved this year. According to Pemex [Mexican Petroleum] figures, between January and September the daily exports of barrels of oil did not exceed an average of 1.71 million. During September alone, this average dropped to 1.64 million. 
	
	
 In the General Preliminary Criteria for Economic Policy 2002, the final text of which is being presented to Congress by the government today, the Finance Secretariat estimated an average price of $17.00 per barrel for the crude mixture, and predicted that the export platform would be 1.825 million barrels per day. 
	
	
 The volume appears large in the current economic context, when oil prices have fallen back to 1999 levels. Hence, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), will decide at its meeting on Wednesday whether or not to cut its worldwide crude production in an effort to shore up energy prices. 
	
	
 Traditionally, Mexico has supported the OPEC cutbacks; however, analysts agreed that it will now tend to support the United States, the main world consumer, and the one that would be adversely affected by a possible increase in crude prices. 
	
	
 George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, expressed this opinion: "In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States, it will not be a game without risks. And it is possible that, at some given time, OPEC may hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply." 
	
	
 He noted that the Mexican economy is very closely linked to that of the United States, and hence no oil producer, whether a member of OPEC or not, is in such a disadvantageous situation. 
	
	
 Frederic Lasserre, an energy sector analyst for the firm Societe Generale, held the view that Mexico's close relationship with the United States prevents it from becoming more committed to OPEC. 
	
	
 "The US authorities would not like to have it (Mexico) as a trading partner and, at the same time, close to OPEC," he observed. 
	
	
 With regard to prices, he gave a reminder that the reason that prompted Mexico to collaborate with OPEC in 1998 was, in fact, the decline in them. 
	
	
 But Ken Miller, from the firm Purvin &amp;amp; Gertz, included an additional factor. 
	
	
 "Mexico sought out the leading producers: Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, not only for the prices, but also because of the competition on the crude oil market (in US territory)," he claimed, pointing out that prices have not yet fallen as low as they did then. 
	
	
 In 1998, the Mexican oil mixture averaged $10.17 per barrel: now, the lowest levels have reached $14.00 per barrel. 
	
	
 Miller remarked that the worldwide economic slowdown has shrunk the demand for energy sources, which could lead the independent producers, including Mexico, to operate in coordination with the oil cartel. 
	
	
 Nevertheless, according to the researcher from the UNAM [National Autonomous University of Mexico] Economics Department, Angel de la Vega, since the Fox administration does not have the security of a fiscal reform available, it cannot be ruled out that Mexico might collaborate with OPEC in the event of a more serious reduction in oil prices. 
	
	
 Miguel Garcia Reyes, a specialist in petroleum geopolitics at the College of Mexico, claimed that Mexico's distancing from OPEC has become more intensified since the attacks on the United States. 
	
	
 He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary." 
	
	
 In terms of market, the Mexican exports do not play an important role, but the support for OPEC on the part of Mexico, Venezuela, and Saudi Arabia in 1998 and 1999 lent credibility to the policy of cutbacks, and achieved the recovery of prices. 
	
	
 Promises Are Cheap 
	
	
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has agreed on three cuts in its production thus far this year, for the purpose of preventing the crude prices from becoming weaker. Nevertheless, it has not kept its promises. 
	
	
 Crude Production Quotas (figures in thousands of barrels per day) 
	
	
 Current Production Quota Real Production Difference 
	
	
 OPEC* Mexico** OPEC* Mexico** OPEC* Mexico** 
	
	
 01 Apr 00 24,692 1,675 24,600 1,534 -92 -141 21 Jun 00 25,392 1,750 25,280 1,684 -112 -66 01 Oct 00 25,892 1,750 26,360 1,720 468 -30 31 Oct 00 26,192 1,750 26,450 1,549 258 -201 01 Feb 01 25,201 1,750 26,800 1,750 1,599 0 01 Apr 01 24,201 1,710 25,670 1,757 1,469 47 01 Sep 01 23,201 1,640 24,745 1,649 1,544 9 
	
	
 "Without counting Iraq/** Export platform 
	
	
 Source: Reforma Analysis Department, based on data from Middle East Survey and Pemex. 
	
	
	


	
THE ABDUCTION of a French diplomat's wife on Thursday has introduced a political dimension to the kidnap-for-ransom pestilence that has spread dramatically during the past 10 months. 
	
	
 The kidnap gang freed her and her driver within two hours of seizure. No ransom was paid. 
	
	
 The abduction, however, delivered a more devastating blow on the capacity of the Macapagal administration to crack down on kidnap syndicates than the grim statistics trotted out by Teresita Ang-See, the Chinese-Filipino anti-crime "crusader," who has relished the role of Cassandra to the Philippine National Police under the new administration. 
	
	
 Since 1992 when organized crime became a leading preoccupation in the national agenda, the main victims of the predatory syndicates have been Ang-See's compatriots in the Chinese-Filipino community. 
	
	
 The conventional explanation is that because of their wealth, they are the logical prey from which to extract ransom money--a perverse form of nationalist racism and redistribution of national wealth. 
	
	
 The Abu Sayyaf kidnapping of foreigners in Sipadan, Malaysia, and in Dos Palmas, Palawan, broke this ethnicity pattern. 
	
	
 But the seizure of the diplomat's wife and her driver was the first time in 10 years that the gangs struck at members of the diplomatic community, whose immunity has been somehow respected by organized syndicates. 
	
	
 The seizure sent alarm bells ringing in the diplomatic community in this country. The repercussions in the home governments and countries are as damaging as the prolonged hostage-taking by the Abu Sayyaf of French, German, Malaysian, Lebanese and Finnish nationals during the Estrada administration. 
	
	
 Then President Joseph Estrada had to cancel visits to Paris and other European capitals in 2000 after he was told that he would receive a hostile reception from the European public over the lengthy impasse of negotiations for the hostages' release. 
	
	
 From my own sources in the diplomatic community, as well as in the Philippine National Police, the diplomat's wife and her driver went to the French school in Bicutan at around 10 a.m., in response to a call from school authorities who reported that her son had some accident. 
	
	
 On the way, a group of about six armed men in uniforms blocked her brand-new car (which had no diplomatic plate) at Better Living Subdivision, Paranaque, and boarded it. 
	
	
 The gang drove the car around the vicinity while they interrogated the victims for about two hours. The hijackers asked them for money--one million pesos was mentioned--which she had supposedly withdrawn from the bank. She told them she had not withdrawn such money and that she was the wife of a senior French diplomat. The gunmen let her go. 
	
	
 The PNP, which believes it was a case of mistaken identity, could not explain why it took the gang two hours to know the identity of the lady. 
	
	
 After detaining them for about two hours, they drove her and the driver to a squatters' area and dropped them off near the Bicutan exit, but not before they took her necklace and wallet. 
	
	
 They did not take her ring and other pieces of jewelry. The gang fled with the car, and the victims took a tricycle home. The details of the crime and the swift release are less important than the political implications. Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control. 
	
	
 This perception is also fueled by the crime statistics of Ang-See, who represents the pessimistic outlook in contrast to the more dismissive outlook of the PNP whose statistics are less alarming than those of Ang-See. 
	
	
 While Ang-See's statistics, derived mainly from non-official sources, paint a grim picture, they should not be ignored. 
	
	
 At the same time, the PNP can't be burying its head in the sand and offering explanations all the time, rather than check the rise of kidnappings. 
	
	
 Ang-See's close collaboration with former PNP chief, now Sen. Panfilo Lacson, is an open secret. Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson. 
	
	
 Since the members of the diplomatic community had previously been immune from the predatory attacks of the gang, the abduction of the diplomat's wife naturally has generated anxieties among foreign governments about how safe their diplomats are in this country. 
	
	
 There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control. 
	
	
 The reasoning behind this perception is that if the gangs were after ransom money, it did not matter whether their victims belonged to the diplomatic community. 
	
	
 The perception is that there was a political message in the abductions staged by some groups that are determined to make this government fail. 
	
	
 A number of embassies here, including the American, French, German and Japanese, have issued advisories to their nationals warning them of risks when travelling in some parts of the country. 
	
	
 The advisories have been prompted by domestic lawlessness and political turbulence rather than by a possible outbreak of insidious terrorist attacks associated with al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden and provoked by the American military action in Afghanistan. 
	
	
 At the rate syndicates are abducting targets--regardless of their ethnic identity and their diplomatic status--with impunity, the administration faces a more serious and direct challenge to its capacity to govern from the specter of lawlessness than from the daunting problem of sparking an economic recovery amid the global economic downturn. 
	
	
 We don't need al-Qaida terrorist attacks in this country to bring the government down in turmoil, create uncertainties in the business community, and frighten tourists and investors away. 
	
	
 The diplomatic community's perception of President Macapagal is that she is organized, knows her economics, does her homework, and has been unscathed by scandals that have been rubbed on her skin by a scandal-mongering opposition. 
	
	
 But the downside is that the deterioration of peace and order is her nemesis that is undoing all her diplomatic initiatives in the world stage to project the Philippines as a staunch ally in the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism. 
	
	
 Some diplomats raise questions about her priorities. They think she is travelling too much, while internal problems sap the country's energy, and that she has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits. 
	
	
 The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan. Her hoses have to be directed at internal terrorism. She has more dangerous enemies at home than elsewhere.	


	
Spanish daily blasts "meaningless" US announcement on Guantanamo detainees 
	
	
 Text of unsigned editorial headlined "The USA tramples on the rights of all the Guantanamo prisoners" published by Spanish newspaper El Mundo web site on 9|February 
	
	
 The White House spokesman announced the night before last that the Taleban prisoners being held in Guantanamo will enjoy the treatment envisaged under the Geneva Convention, but not the foreign prisoners from Al-Qai'dah, who the Bush administration considers terrorists. The Geneva Convention is the international treaty signed in 1949 by the USA and other countries, which regulates the treatment of prisoners of war and grants them a set of legal and humanitarian rights. Bush's spokesman added that none of the 158 detainees in Guantanamo is going to be given prisoner-of-war status, which makes the apparently positive part of the White House statement meaningless. The USA refuses to admit that these detainees are prisoners of war because, under the Convention, they would have the right not to answer any questions except to give their name and rank, they could not be tried except for war crimes and they would have to be repatriated after the war ends. So when the White House says it is going to treat the Taleban in accordance with the Geneva Convention, it is pure rhetoric, nothing other than a public relations exercise and will be meaningless in practice. The key issue is not so much whether they are treated humanely and their beliefs respected, but their legal status. If they don't enjoy the advantages of being prisoners of war and do not have the right to be tried under US criminal law, what jurisdiction will be used for these men being held incommunicado in a place that isn't the USA or Cuba? Nobody in the US government has answered this question, even though international organizations like the Red Cross and Human Rights Watch have denounced the defenceless situation of these prisoners, who have no access to lawyers and do not enjoy the minimum guarantees for judicial proceedings which, in their case, do not exist. Donald Rumsfeld and other senior Washington officials have tried to justify what is happening in Guantanamo on the grounds that the detainees are dangerous terrorists. That may be the case, but even the worst criminals have the right to a lawyer and to know the charges against them. It can only be paradoxical that a supposedly model democracy like the USA can trample on the law to such an extent. 
	
	
	


	
Norway should be in the forefront of combating climate problems. The government wants to play an active role internationally but we should also work on reducing emissions here at home. 
	
	
 "The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year," Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written. Between now and 2008, the government's environmental initiative will be given concrete form in a report to the Storting this spring, in which an early quota system will occupy a central place. 
	
	
 Norway and the other rich countries have a moral responsibility to achieve real reductions. Regardless of what Norway and other countries manage to do in this respect, we must prepare ourselves for climate changes. According to the United Nations' climate panel, in the next 10 to 20 years changes in the climate will be almost unaffected by what we do in the way of initiatives in the next few years to reduce emissions of climate gases. The explanation is that the increased concentration of climate gases in the atmosphere and the slowness of the climate system will make a certain degree of global warming unavoidable. 
	
	
 In recent years the RegClim research project, under the aegis of the Norwegian Research Council, has worked to estimate the way the climate will develop in Norway in 30 to 50 years. The main conclusions were that the trend toward warmer weather and more precipitation will presumably continue. 
	
	
 The climate changes will be different from region to region. The western part of Norway will experience the markedly greatest increase in precipition in the fall. North Norway will also get more precipitation in the fall but warmer temperatures in the winter. In the eastern part of Norway the biggest increase in precipitation will be in the winter. In coming years the winters will be less snowy but greener and wetter. 
	
	
 These extrapolations of the state of the climate are not completely reliable. Even if we can say with great certainty that climate changes will come, we need more knowledge about the effects . 
	
	
 How must local societies organize themselves if a couple of hurricanes every year become normal? How should we prepare ourselves for more and bigger floods? What consequences will the increase in temperature have for raising livestock and fish? Will climate changes produce new types of pests that will create problems? For the next few years our goal is to both gain more knowledge and put together good preparedness strategies. 
	
	
 All the world's countries and peoples are affected by climate changes but it is the poor countries that are being hit the hardest. Even if developing countries have contributed to these climate problems to just a slight degree, they will nevertheless bear the greatest burden. 
	
	
 Norway and other industrialized countries, on the other hand, have fairly good prospects of grappling with climate changes because we have an economy to put necessary measures to work. We must avoid seeing environmental problems increase the social differences in the world. For that reason the rich countries-those making the climate worse-must go on the offensive to solve the problems we ourselves have created. 
	
	
 In the Sem statement the coalition government warned of a more offensive climate policy. An offensive climate police will bring costs with it. But if we do not make these expenditures now, the bill for the generations to come will be even bigger. This our conscience ought not to permit us. 
	
	
 The challenge will be to introduce the most cost-effective climate policy possible and at the same time take Norwegian business and industry's competitiveness into consideration. 
	
	
 The elements in a more offensive climate policy are: 
	
	
 Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005. We are setting the stage for Norway to get national initiatives under way earlier than we are required to under the Kyoto Protocol. The government's policy statement states, among other things, that the establishment of a national quota system should be speeded up. 
	
	
 Implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. The government wants to set the stage for Norway to ratify the Kyoto Protocol next year. There is consensus that a broad quota system with international quota exchange should be used to achieve our emission responsibilities during the first obligatory period, 2008-2012. 
	
	
 Pursue the international climate negotiations. The consensus that has been achieved internationally about the period 2008-2012 is just the first step down the road. For later periods, sharper reductions are necessary and there is also the need to get more countries to take on climate obligations. Norway still wants to play an active role in this process. 
	
	
 The report to the Storting that the government is preparing for the spring will further specify which measures will be implemented between now and 2008. A proposal for an early quota system will be at the center of this report. There exists the potential for significant reductions in climate gas emissions in Norway that will not produced with today's resources. The use of quotas will be a cost-effective means of achieving better results. 
	
	
 A quota is a right to emit a certain quantity of climate gases during a certain period and this right can be sold on a market. The advantages are that the authorities can set a ceiling on all emissions. Businesses that are obligated by a quota can then choose whether they want to buy those quotas they need or introduce measures to reduce emissions. 
	
	
 Many countries, among them Denmark, Great Britain, and Sweden, are already under way developing early quota systems. In addition to being effective, an early quota system would also give business and industry useful experience before the international quota system following the Kyoto Protocol comes into effect in 2008. 
	
	
 In the government's work to put the quota system into shape in Norway, we are now discussing a number of problems. Some of these are: 
	
	
 The range-which gases and sectors should be included in the quota system, and how businesses exposed to competition should be dealt with. 
	
	
 Measures about emissions-how much all of those obligated by a quota can emit. 
	
	
 Fines for exceeding the quota limit. 
	
	
 The possibility of cooperating with other countries' early quota systems. 
	
	
 I am pleased that there now seems to be broad political consensus that in Norway as well we should get under way with an early quota system. 
	
	
 Regardless of the shape of the measures in Norway, Norwegian businesses as well ought to contribute to reducing emissions in poor countries. The green development mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol opens the way for businesses from industrialized countries to pay for the introduction of more environmentally-friendly technology in polluting industries in developing countries. This mechanism can already be used-and before 2008, too. In addition to producing climate benefits, such measures will contribute to development and reduced local pollution in poor countries. 
	
	
 Norway is one of the countries in this world that has earned the most from fossil fuels. This gives us a special responsibility in climate policy-not least vis-a-vis the poorest countries. 
	
	
	


	
President Bush's projection of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and his threat of military action against them has evoked world-wide criticism. Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov said after meeting US Vice President Dick Cheney in Washington that there is no evidence of weapons' proliferation against these nations to substantiate the US charge. French officials said that the rhetoric of good and evil is not suitable for the realities of today's world. Former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said that Bush has made a 'big mistake' by lumping the three nations together as they are different from each other. NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson said in New York that credible evidence will be prerequisite for NATO's support for any military action against the three nations. 
	
	
 The lumping of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' by President Bush has certainly not raised US image. It has rather tarnished it, since the international community expects a mature, compassionate and civilised conduct from the United States as the only superpower in the world. It should have been on the side of the smaller and weaker nations, rather than targeting them one by one in the pursuit of its global agenda. It should have worked to eliminate injustice, instead of trying to harass other countries for national prejudices. The world expects a civilised conduct from the United States in place of arrogance, discrimination and injustice. Washington is, in fact, treading a path of coercion, intimidation and blackmailing against the smaller and weaker nations. President Bush is intolerant to the dissent to his policy of domination in total negation of the lofty principles of morality, ethic and democracy, which he assertively holds so dear to his heart. If terrorism is to be fought successfully, the United States should better withdraw its support to the forces of injustice, tyranny and oppression in the world. Fight against poverty alone will not be a productive effort to fight terrorism. It's injustice that breeds hatred and revolt. Let Middle East be the test ground for US sincerity to fight terrorism. Its unfettered support to Israel is based on injustice and this distortion in its policies needs to be removed to ensure its own security as well as that of its allies. 
	
	
	


	
Following the presidential vote in Zimbabwe, there is just one thing Robert Mugabe cannot be reproached for, and that is having made a secret of his determination to stay in power by every possible means. The electoral hijacking had been announced, prepared, and organized. It has now taken place. Should one be surprised? Since he nearly lost his parliamentary majority in June 2000, the head of state has stated and restated to his supporters that the presidential election was going to be a "war." He was as good as his word. 
	
	
 The "war for land" continued, at the risk of causing famine. The army swore allegiance to the "father of independence," regardless of the verdict at the ballot box. The independence of Zimbabwe's justice system was compromised. The local press was harassed. The opposition MDC (Movement for Democratic Change) was the victim of "state terrorism" that its candidate Morgan Tsvangirai rightly condemned after being beaten in an election loaded against him from start to finish, from drawing up the electoral lists to counting the votes. The real secret of the ballot box will never be revealed. 
	
	
 This "fait accompli" in Zimbabwe is a challenge for the international community. It can only rise to meet it by making some radical changes. Indignant protests apart, nothing was done to prevent the disaster awaiting one of the key countries in southern Africa, seen as the continent's growth pole. The weapon of so-called "intelligent" sanctions proved ineffective, especially as the punitive measures were taken too late and only served to deny Robert Mugabe and his associates trips abroad and access to the funds they have spirited away. They amounted to no more than a ban on holidays and a golden retirement. Finally and most importantly, Great Britain remained locked in the familiar psychodrama between the former colonizer and colonized. Africa, with its own "observers," has just ratified a shameful electoral sham. Kenya and Tanzania even "congratulated" Robert Mugabe on his re-election after the first round. 
	
	
 It is time to speak the language of truth. Either the absence of democracy in Africa is no longer any more of a problem for Europe than the lack of development, or it is time to get serious about "good governance" as a condition for aid. Either the New Partnership for African Development (Nepad) is merely to entertain the international gallery during the occasional conference on "sustainable development" or Africa must itself impose a minimum of probity and respect for fundamental liberties. It has the means. Robert Mugabe remains in power thanks to the maize, oil, and electricity he supplies to South Africa. In Zimbabwe it is better to have an end to the torment than torment without end. 
	
	
 Fortunately, Europe is no longer "Africa's policeman." But it must demand that the countries of Africa put their own house in order. 
	
	
 
	
	
	


	
Taipei, Jan. 3 (CNA) -- Premier Chang Chun-hsiung expressed alarm Thursday at reports that a legislator was kidnapped and held for three days in a Taipei hotel, saying that his government will do its utmost to stop gangsters from preying on lawmakers. 
	
	
 Presiding over an inter-agency conference on social order, Chang asked the police to catch the gangsters who allegedly detained Legislator Huang Hsien-chou at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Taipei. 
	
	
 Later that day, a man was arrested in Taipei in relation to the case. Chang Fu-shun, 27, is said to be the younger brother of Chang Hui-hua, who allegedly invited Huang to meet her at the hotel and who Huang claimed was in the hotel room when he was detained. 
	
	
 Huang claimed the previous day in Taichung that he had been trapped by the gangsters, who had pretended to be his political supporters. 
	
	
 Huang told reporters that the gangsters, who included at least two men and a woman, made an appointment to meet him at the hotel Dec. 26. When he arrived, he claimed, one of them offered him a drink and he lost consciousness after drinking it. 
	
	
 When he awoke, he found that his hands and feet had been bound. The gangsters demanded NT$2 million from him but finally settled for NT$800,000 which they withdrew using Huang's credit card. 
	
	
 Huang was released Dec. 31 and reported to police that day. 
	
	
 Huang revealed what he claimed to be the whole story at a news conference Wednesday night after press reports said he had in fact been caught with prostitutes in the hotel and blackmailed. 
	
	
 The police said that the hotel room had been paid for by a woman who checked in under the name of Lin An, which they said was an alias used by Chang Hui-hua. 
	
	
	


	
The great leader [yongdoja] Comrade Kim Chong-il has pointed out: 
	
	
 "Although the imperialists and reactionaries speak ill of socialism and pretend to be the 'advocates of human rights,' they are the ones who really abuse human rights." 
	
	
 At a recent United Nations meeting, the United States picked a quarrel with us by speaking as if our country had a "human rights problem." This was not the first time the United States acted this way. More often than not, the United States, acting as if it were an "adjudicator of human rights," published the so-called "Annual Human Rights Report" and "Annual Report on International Religious Freedom," attempting to teach a lesson or two to countries -- including our country -- it deems disagreeable. 
	
	
 The United States, however, is not qualified to speak of "human rights" in other countries. One can easily talk in a similar manner of the racial discrimination in the United States which is becoming more serious with the passage of time. Many people in the United States have their human rights ruthlessly trampled upon simply because they are colored. 
	
	
 According to a poll conducted jointly by the US daily "The Washington Post" and Harvard University, people are wondering whether the American society is not reverting to the 1960s when racial discrimination was very serious. A total of 1,709 people, including blacks, Latinos, and Asians, participated in the poll. They responded that three out of ten blacks could not find job or have been denied responsible positions in the workplace simply because they were blacks and eight out of ten blacks and two thirds of the Latinos and Asians said they had suffered persecution and had been subjected to abusive language. 
	
	
 Ali Barr [name as published], a black man working at a TV station in Atlanta, has recently experienced racial discrimination in a restaurant. When Ali Barr and his company entered the restaurant, ten white people inside the restaurant appeared surprised to see them and a waitress told them to leave the premise immediately. Recalling the scene, Ali Barr said: "Myself and my company were racially discriminated against. I can never forget what I saw that day as long as I live." 
	
	
 As a result of racial discrimination, many among the ethnic minorities reportedly have been driven out of urban areas. According to 2000 vital statistics released not so long ago in the United States, one out of four residents of the suburban areas was an ethnic minority. This figure is said to be 5 percent higher than it was a decade ago. 
	
	
 People will likely remember the fact that the United States withdrew its delegation from the UN conference against racism held last September in Durban, South Africa. In the beginning, the United States refused to send a delegation, but eventually dispatched a low-level delegation. When voices critical of the Israelis' violation of the Palestinian people's human rights were raised at the conference, the United States went so far as to withdraw its delegation. 
	
	
 Since this is how a government claiming to represent its people behaves in international settings, it is no wonder people at home follow the government's example. 
	
	
 Instead of talking about "human rights issues" of other countries, the United States should find out how things are in its own house where the abuse of human rights is rampant and make effort to rectify the practices. 
	
	
	


	
The attacks on the World Trade Center Towers and the Pentagon were attacks on the freedoms and values for which the United States and the Western world stand, President Bush declared shortly afterward, and many people in Europe repeated it after him. 
	
	
 There is a great deal of truth in that, but in the light of what has happened afterwards, the question arises as to whether the Americans and their allies themselves are not sometimes inclined to sacrifice these values for the "good cause." There is no doubt that a military operation and intensified security measures were imperative after the terrible tragedy of 11 September. That al-Qa'ida terrorists and Taliban fighters are not very concerned about the human suffering that they have caused is also generally known. However, the ends -- dealing with those opponents -- does not justify all the means. 
	
	
 There is, in the first place, the case of the military action in Afghanistan. Apart from the reasons or justification for such an action, all the combatants' war conduct must be constantly tested against the standards of international humanitarian law; that is, the rules which curb the use of force during a military operation. Back in 1949, it was agreed by nearly all the states in the world that the sufferings of war must henceforth become more bearable, especially for those who are not directly involved in the conflict. These rules, laid down in the four Geneva Conventions, provide, among other things, for the protection of sick and wounded servicemen and prisoners of war. In addition, attempts must be made to prevent any unnecessary suffering by both military personnel and civilians by, for instance, imposing restrictions on the use of weapons. 
	
	
 But the greatest attention is paid to the fate of the civilian population: In principle, the latter can never be the object of a military operation. Hence, humanitarian law requires that in all circumstances a distinction be made between military targets and those not involved in the armed conflict. The two supplementary protocols to the Geneva Conventions, adopted in 1977, increase, among other things, the protection of the civilian population. Many countries are parties to them, but the United States has not ratified these protocols, so that the additional protection they offer is difficult to enforce in a conflict in which US troops are taking part. 
	
	
 Although it is doubtful that all the news reaches us from Afghanistan, a great many press reports suggest that humanitarian law was violated regularly over the past few weeks. This has happened despite solemn pledges to the United Nations that the United States "is committed to minimizing civilian casualties and damage to civilian property." 
	
	
 Hence you can hardly speak of a "targeting error" when a Red Cross warehouse, although clearly recognizable by the large red cross painted on the roof, was shelled twice by US aircraft. Such a building enjoys the highest possible protection, and can and should never be the object of an attack, unless it is clearly established that it is being used for military purposes. 
	
	
 In other case, too, it seems doubtful that the crucial distinction between military and civilian targets was made systematically. Newspaper headlines such as "United Nations Confirms US Bombing of Village and Mosque" and "100 Killed in Bombing in Eastern Afghanistan" speak for themselves. According to witnesses, these were attacks in an area where neither al-Qa'ida troops nor Taliban had been observed. Even if these attacks were directed against a clear military target, the large number of civilian casualties would still never be justifiable, because whoever plans a military attack must take all precautions to prevent such a tragedy. 
	
	
 Not only with the protection of the civilian population does something sometimes go wrong. Secretary Rumsfeld's statements (on 20 November 2001) that "the United States is not inclined to negotiate surrenders, nor are we in a position, with relatively small numbers of forces on the ground, to accept prisoners," and that "my hope is that they will be either killed or taken prisoner (by the Northern Alliance)" also suggested that death would be the only way out of the conflict for the Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters. That would amount to a flagrant violation of humanitarian law: whoever ceases fighting for whatever reason is entitled to protection. It is all the more to be deplored that such statements come from somebody who, as a senior commander, serves as an example to others regarding the observance of rules of humanitarian law. 
	
	
 Now, nearly two months later, concern about the fate of the captive Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters has further increased. Moving the captives to the Guantanamo Bay military base on Cuba is rightly whipping up a storm of protest. Humanitarian law leaves no doubt that those who fall captive in their opponent's hands are entitled at all times to decent treatment, even if they do not qualify for prisoner of war status. Transporting these people, shackled hand and foot and with hoods over their heads, shaving their beards -- which form part of their religious identity -- and their "accommodation" in half-open and cages that are much too small can probably never pass this test... 
	
	
 The consequences of 11 September are also making themselves felt far from the battlefield. Shortly after its decision to take military action, the Bush administration also decided to provide the press with only sparse information about the course of the operation. Because press freedom -- the jewel of the US Constitution -- can be restricted for reasons of national security. The right of citizens to such information about their government's actions is crippled by the fact that it is being accepted for the present without much complaint. 
	
	
 Under the protest of international and US human rights organizations but with the approval of large sections of the population, antiterrorism measures are being adopted in great haste. Foreigners suspected of maintaining (loose) ties with terrorist organizations can be detained indefinitely. There is uncertainty about the precise number, but it is certain that over 1,000 men from the Middle East have already been arrested. 
	
	
 In the media, the possibility of questioning presumed terrorists very roughly is also being considered aloud. The need for timely and accurate information about possible new attacks is naturally particularly great, but whether the global ban on torture can be abused on that account is another matter. 
	
	
 What raises even more questions is the order that President Bush issued last November. Through that, the United States can detain and try anybody who is not a US citizen and who is suspected of being a member of al-Qa'ida or of being involved in international terrorism in one way or another. Only special military commissions can try them. It is stated in black and white that it is hardly feasible for these commissions to apply the normal principles of law and rules of evidence. Consequently, evidence will be accepted that "a normal person" deems to have the value of evidence. Hence guilt need not be established "beyond reasonable doubt," nor is there any mention of a presumption of innocence. Appeal is not possible, but the death penalty is. On the other hand, US Taliban or al-Qa'ida fighters, such as the recently captured John Walker Lindh, will be tried by ordinary US criminal courts. 
	
	
 There also seems to be a difference among the foreigners: In all likelihood, captured British fighters will be sent to Britain after questioning. Presumed war criminals such as Milosevic enjoy all the guarantees of a fair trial, but the Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters at Guantanamo will get a trial which falls far short of the basic standards of the US Constitution and the treaty on civil and political rights ratified by the United States. 
	
	
 Not in the United States alone are the screws being tightened. A number of other countries have sharpened their laws following 11 September, from increased detention possibilities to stricter legislation on asylum and immigration. In December 2001, the UK proclaimed a state of emergency and passed the Antiterrorism, Crime, and Security Act. Whenever there is a suspicion that a foreigner is involved in international terrorism, he will be arrested and imprisoned. If it emerges that the person concerned cannot be removed from British territory because he is in serious danger in his own country, he can be detained almost indefinitely under this law. 
	
	
 Other states have used the US tragedy to polish their own image. Out of well-understood self-interest, countries such as Russia, China, and Israel joined in the Bush administration's anti-terrorism campaign, because it enabled them to compare their domestic situation with the US situation and ask for moral support for the fight they have been waging against terrorism for years. Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon called Palestinian leader Arafat "Our Usama Bin Ladin." 
	
	
 The fight against terrorism is undoubtedly justified, but, as with every struggle, it also holds true that the fundamental principles of human rights and humanitarian law must be respected. Observance of these rules will not insure that the fight against terrorism is lost; it will prove respect for human dignity, of which the West is rightly a champion. 
	
	
	


	
AMMAN -- After months of low-profile activities, the 14 professional associations held their first anti-normalisation conference on Sunday during which they renewed calls for severing all ties with "the Zionist enemy." 
	
	
 More than 50 participants, most of them members of the unions' Anti-Normalisation Committee, took part in the one-day conference, held against a backdrop of uncertainty as to the future of the 10-year-old peace process. 
	
	
 The speakers outlined the plight of the Palestinians under occupation and the suffering of Iraqi people facing crippling international sanctions for the eleventh consecutive year. 
	
	
 They also lambasted "US-British aggression on Iraq and meddling in its internal affairs." 
	
	
 "Normalisation with the Zionist enemy is a crime against the country, nation and humanity," read one of the banners hoisted at the Professional Associations Complex. 
	
	
 According to Council of Unions' president Mohammad Oran, the anti- normalisation drive remains an Arab, Muslim and human goal. It is also a binding decision taken by the professional associations' general assembly, after Jordan sealed a peace treaty with Israel in October 1994. 
	
	
 Former Hamas spokesperson Ibrahim Ghosheh and spokesperson for the Muslim Brotherhood Jamil Abu Baker took part in the conference. 
	
	
 Sunday's gathering is the first such public event since authorities cracked down early last year on the anti-normalisation committee after they made public a blacklist of Jordanians they claimed had established "ties with the Jewish state." 
	
	
 During Sunday's conference, nine papers were discussed. 
	
	
 Political affiliation among association members lean heavily towards Islamist, pan-Arab and leftist groups. 
	
	
 Conference participants warned against Israeli "expansionist plans" and argued that the peace treaty was in favour of the "Zionist enemy." 
	
	
 They called for "ostracising" those who deal with Israeli partners and maintaining a total boycott of the Jewish state at the grassroots level. 
	
	
 On the official level, relations between Jordan and Israel have been strained since the outbreak of the Intifada 16 months ago. Jordan has delayed sending its ambassador designate, Abdul Ilah Kurdi, to Tel Aviv. 
	
	
 The conference also honoured the families of Jordanian detainees in Israeli jails. 
	
	
	


	
LONDON, Jan 24 (AFP) -- British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Thursday [24 January] it was "far preferable" that British prisoners held at the US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba should face justice in Britain. 
	
	
 Three Britons are among 158 captured al-Qa'ida and Taliban fighters detained at the camp. They were captured in Afghanistan during the US-led military campaign against the country's now-crumbled hardline Taliban regime. 
	
	
 "It is far preferable if they are British citizens for them to come to the United Kingdom and face justice here," Straw told BBC radio. 
	
	
 He was speaking after American John Walker Lindh, captured while fighting for the Taliban, arrived handcuffed and shackled at Dulles International Airport outside the US capital late Wednesday and was taken to a nearby jail. 
	
	
 He faces trial in his own country on charges of conspiring to kill US nationals and supporting terrorist groups. 
	
	
 The US military put on hold transfers of prisoners to the Cuba base Wednesday. 
	
	
 International criticism of conditions at the makeshift camp have grown since the first detainees were transferred from Afghanistan earlier this month. 
	
	
 The prisoners are being held at the temporary outdoor detention facility called "Camp X-Ray" where each has a separate cell with a concrete floor, wooden roof and chain-link walls.	


	
(CORR)Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol 
	
	
 (Correcting "handed over" in line 2 to read "sent". Corrected version follows.) 
	
	
 Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe 
	
	
 Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have sent a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change. In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community. They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development. To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed. "Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add. However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification. They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change". 
	
	
	


	
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol 
	
	
 Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe 
	
	
 Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change. In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community. They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development. To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed. "Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add. However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification. They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change". 
	
	
	


	
Australia's plans to construct a space port on Christmas Island, located just a stone's throw, a mere 500 kilometres south of Jakarta, has concerned some in the Indonesian Government. Although diplomatic overtures to express official objections have not yet been made, the government through the National Space and Flight Agency has already warned of the possible risks facing Indonesia. The nation should certainly be concerned about the plans to build a rocket launch pad, work on the infrastructure for which is due to start in 2002, with launches beginning from 2004. The problem is, this large-scale project right in our own backyard could not only potentially cause space debris consisting of bits of rocket, fuel and satellites to fall into Indonesian territory, but will also disrupt flights and shipping. 
	
	
 If a rocket launch fails, debris weighing hundreds of tonnes will be scattered over the densely-populated island of Java or the tourist island of Bali, and on to the east as far as Timor. 
	
	
 The memory Russia's Mir space station which after 15 years fell to earth on 23 March 2001 is still fresh of. Fortunately shrapnel from the former space station, which measured 33 x 30 x 27 metres and weighed 137 tonnes, burned up as it re-entered the earth's atmosphere somewhere over the Pacific Ocean between Chile and Australia. Nevertheless, intact pieces of debris weighing up to 20 to 30 tonnes fell into the Pacific Ocean. 
	
	
 Prior to that, two Soviet satellites struck the earth. Cosmos 1402 in January 1978 fell over the Northern Hemisphere and Cosmos 954, which contained radioactive substances, crashed above the uninhabited tundra of Canada in September 1977. 
	
	
 Even more worrying is the possibility that a space station could be transformed into a military base and pose a threat to Indonesia's national sovereignty. At such close proximity, if bilateral relations with Australia were to take a turn for the worse, firing at Indonesia would be extremely easy. 
	
	
 On the other hand, Christmas Island is certainly an ideal location for rocket launches due to its proximity to the Equator and the geostationary orbit (GSO). [passage omitted on technical details of operation of GSO] 
	
	
 Notwithstanding the above, in reality only three of the 15 launch pad centres worldwide are located near the Equator - Kourou, San Marco and Sriharikota. But the famous US space centre, the Kennedy Space Centre at Cape Canaveral in Florida is located relatively far from the Equator. Therefore, plans to construct a space port should be moved from Christmas Island if Australia is really willing to listen to Indonesia's objections. 
	
	
 International law governing accountability if one nation's space debris falls on another is already in existence. The main convention is the UN Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, 28 March 1972, known as the 1972 Liability Convention. 
	
	
 The Convention basically sets out the responsibility of the launching state, either jointly or collectively, for the consequences of a launch failure from the time of launching through to the re-entry of a satellite to the Earth's atmosphere. The Convention also sets out various claims that can be made by states who have suffered damages as a result of other states' space projects. 
	
	
 As the nation most likely to suffer the impact of the Australian Space Port, Indonesia could rely on the simplest article in the Liability Convention, Section 14. This section allows states who have suffered damages to claim compensation through the International Claims Commission, which acts as the representative of the appellant state against the launching state (in this case Australia) or any other international organisation which can be classed as a launching state. 
	
	
 Of course, lodging a claim is not as simple as clapping one's hands. Indonesia at the very least needs to sign the UN Convention on Space as well as ratify several other treaties governing national activities in outer space. 
	
	
 These UN Conventions are the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies 1967 (Space Treaty 1967), the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects 1972 (Liability Convention 1972), and finally, the Convention on Registration of Objections launched into Outer Space 1974 (Registration Convention 1974). 
	
	
 So far, the Indonesian Government has only ratified the 1972 Liability Convention. This convention only applies to space objects that fall into Indonesian sovereign territory. Indonesia has only adopted one compensation principle, the Absolute Liability principle. This principle means that the burden of proof that the claimant state has suffered damages does not lie on the state submitting its damages claim. It is sufficient at law to demonstrate the fact of the damage caused as a result of the space object identified as belonging to the launching state or a state that has participated in the space object launching. 
	
	
 A National Space and Flight Agency working paper suggest a high degree of difficulty if Indonesia, as a state that has suffered damage, were to lodge a damages claim. In the case of objections to the Christmas Island space station, Indonesia would need to be able to show that damage that has occurred within its territorial area was caused by space objects launched from the Christmas Island station. This would of course require advanced technology and great cost to bring the matter to a claim submission. 
	
	
 But in conversation with Kompas on Sunday (17 Mar), one of Indonesia's few space law experts, Prof Dr Priyatna Abdurrasyid, expressed a different opinion. Indonesia would not need to produce further evidence to substantiate its claim, he said. It would suffice to submit a claim to the UN Claims Commission and state that the space debris in Indonesia had originated from the Australian space centre. 
	
	
 "If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities. If a deadlock in negotiations occurs, the parties can ask the UN Claims Commission as a neutral party to act as adjudicator. This is no different to arbitration hearings to resolve other cases," Priyatna said. 
	
	
 Unfortunately, historical precedent shows that claiming compensation is no easy matter. In claiming compensation from the Soviet Union over Cosmos 954, Canada was forced to navigate numerous procedural complications. This is a very important lesson for Indonesia. 
	
	
 Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station]. "In principle, my personal opinion is that we shouldn't go against the current. Rather we should the use the current to our mutual benefit," he said. 
	
	
 Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities. 
	
	
 "The Space Treaty 1967 obliges launching states to open as widely as possible the opportunity of cooperation with other states in all its activities. The treaty also pledges that the launching of space objects be purely for humanitarian purposes and not for military purposes," Priyatna said. 
	
	
 The basic principles of the Space Treaty 1967 oblige Australia as the launching state to open the possibility of humanitarian cooperation in the field of space endeavour. "Australia is not allowed to prevent other states who want to cooperate on its space centre. Indonesia can exploit this principle of the Space Treaty 1967. Rather than issuing a letter of objection to the Australian Government, wouldn't it be better to join them in our own national interest?" he asked. 
	
	
 The kangaroo country should implement risk management procedures before opening the space station on Christmas Island, and open as widely as possible the opportunity of cooperation with other states, and open complete access to cooperation to all states without exception. These principles are upheld in the Space Treaty 1967. 
	
	
 Australia should adhere to the Cardinal Principle of International Law, which states that all nations in the world must first respect and promote the humanitarian interests and progress of all humankind. But the problem is, who can ensure that these guidelines will indeed be adhered to? 
	
	
	


	
If keeping Arafat captive, under siege with the Palestinian people by the Israeli occupying forces, is an affront to Palestinian, Arab dignity, and International justice, it is also a powder keg that will at one point explode, devastating what remains of the Israeli security. It is that same security that Sharon, the assassin, uses as an excuse to instigate struggles and wars, and promote instability. He also pretends that he besieges Arafat because so far, he was unable to confront the Palestinian resistance. 
	
	
 It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded. The only interpretation for these accusations is that Arafat has formidable supernatural powers that enable him to defend the rights of his homeland and people against the unlimited capabilities of the Israeli occupying forces equipped with all the mighty US weapon technology. 
	
	
 The failure of the US-made Israeli war machine to settle this unequal battle became clear in the farcical-yet-provocative, statements made by the Israeli minister of defense now present in Washington. He has called for helping aggressive Israel to put a traitorous agent at the head of the Palestinian Authority, who could accept its terms to "assassinate' the rights of Palestinians. 
	
	
 It is certain the Ben Eliezer's hallucination is a mere expression of failure to persuade the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices. They even embody the bankrupt policy of Israeli criminal extremism and failure to gain legitimacy for its continuing occupation of the Palestinian territories. 
	
	
 Ben Eliezer's raving coincided with the arrival of his assassin boss Sharon to Washington to take part in exerting pressures on the US administration, and persuade it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence as he calls it. Sharon and Ben Eliezer never stopped to consider that no patriotic Palestinian could accept to serve as a substitute agent to Israel. They, along with the extremist gang in the Israeli government, do not want to understand that Arafat symbolizes the Palestinian struggle. With this attitude, Sharon's government showed its true hostility for a leader and chairman elected by his people. US peace Envoy Burns has expressed this after his meeting with president Mubarak. He has declared that US contacts will continue with Arafat considering that he is the elected Palestinian chairman. 
	
	
 I do wish that Burns's statements reflect a true position that signals a return of balance to the US position in dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle. 
	
	
 The time has come, gentlemen, for Sharon, the assassin, to realize that injustice cannot last long. The security of the Israelis depends on the Palestinians' regaining their rights. By besieging Arafat, Sharon has turned him into the "Mandela" of Arab struggle. This foretells that the Israeli occupation's claims will inevitably falls, no matter how long Sharon humiliates Arab dignity, relaying on the protection and support of Washington, which forgot all principles and role in defending justice, and international legitimacy. 
	
	
	


	
OVER 2,374 Bayelsa State people have received free medical services for various ailments, courtesy of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). 
	
	
 A breakdown of the statistics of patients that benefited from the exercise showed that 106 received general surgeries, 20 had eye cataract operations, 260 got eye glasses, while 1, 988 others had general consultations. 
	
	
 Apart from Odi whose people topped the number of beneficiaries (they got 1, 733 out of 2, 374 persons treated), other councils which participated in the free health care are Kolokuma/Opukoma, 284 persons, Kaiama, 213 persons, among others. 
	
	
 Co-ordinator of the project, Mr Sean Nortman, told reporters that 52 volunteers from various fields in medicine help to make the project a reality. 
	
	
 "With the combined goal of providing free quality health care in this rural areas through the dispensing of prescribed drugs as well as undertaking surgeries that came to the medical site daily, we made it to give the patients we come in contact with health advice and education, hopefully to prevent further problems in the future," Nortman said. 
	
	
 In an interview with journalists later, NDDC Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Mr. Timi Alaibe, said that the choice of Odi was a deliberate policy to give the people of the area who are still recovering from the trauma of the 1999 sad incident a sense of belonging. 
	
	
 Alaibe said that the commission was genuinely determined to change the tide of things in Bayelsa and other NDDC states who have been long neglected over years. 
	
	
 Meanwhile, reports of investigation into the recent oil spillage that occurred in Umudike Ohaji Egbema council in Imo State which left eight persons dead and many others injured is ready. 
	
	
 The member representing the Ohaji Egbema Oguta Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives Tony Okere disclosed this on Wednesday while fielding questions from reporters in his constituency office. 
	
	
 He added that the report would be presented before the house as soon as it resumes sitting. 
	
	
 He said the compositions of the committee included representatives from the Directorate of Petroleum Resource of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), government, Shell and the host community to ensure justice and fairness, law to protect only one party" he said. 
	
	
 On the activities of the NDDC, Okere accused the commission of siting projects in non oil producing areas, warning that it might derail from its set objectives.	


	
Today, in order to find a correct solution to the Middle East issue, it is important to frustrate Israel's territorial ambition and create conditions for Palestine to create an independent state of its own. Apart from this, we cannot talk about the settlement of the Middle East issue. 
	
	
 The great leader [suryong] Comrade Kim Il-song taught: 
	
	
 "Imperialism is the source of war and the disturber of peace." 
	
	
 It is an urgent matter for Israel to withdraw completely from the occupied land of Palestine. 
	
	
 Israel makes itself appear to be withdrawing its troops from some of the occupied Palestinian autonomous areas. On 17 November, Israeli troops pulled out of Tulkarm, a West Bank area of the Jordan River. 
	
	
 However, this is no reason to be optimistic about the situation. 
	
	
 Toward the end of October, Israel declared that it would withdraw from some of the Palestinian autonomous areas where the situation was "relatively calm" and pretended to be abiding by the decision. However, it stopped withdrawing its troops halfway through under the pretext of "unstable situation" and occupied them again. There is no way of knowing whether or not Israel will halt the withdrawal of its troops again under any pretext as it did before. 
	
	
 On 18 November, the following day Israel began withdrawing its troops from Tulkarm, Israeli troops deliberately gunned down two Palestinians in the Palestinian autonomous areas as if they were quarries. On 20 November, the Israeli army bulldozed dwelling houses in the Palestinian autonomous area and even committed such an atrocious act as wounding Palestinians without hesitation. As a result, the situation has become tense again. 
	
	
 It was in fact due to strong international pressure that Israel began withdrawing its troops from the Palestinian autonomous area. 
	
	
 In September last year Israeli Prime Minister Sharon, the then leader of the opposition party, visited a holy place in Kuds [Jerusalem], throwing Israel and Palestine into a fierce fight. Sharon's remarks and behavior that were insulting to the Palestinians infuriated Palestine. The desperate fight even took tolls of women and children. 
	
	
 The clash between Israel and Palestine briefly appeared to be abating in the wake of the large-scale attack incident [taesupkyok sakon] against the United States. However, it has become fierce again after Israeli minister of tourism was assassinated. Taking advantage of this, Israel occupied six cities located in the Palestinian autonomous areas by the use of force. 
	
	
 The United Nations and many countries around the world began paying attention again to the situation in the Middle East that is becoming more complicated. International pressure is on Israel again. 
	
	
 Caving in to the international pressure, the United States pretended to support the creation of an independent Palestinian state. The United States, which is currently waging a war in Afghanistan, tried to shore up support from Arab states and Islamic world through a crafty ruse. Seeing through the US scheme, Israel refused to continue the troop withdrawal from the Palestinian autonomous area. 
	
	
 Israel has never abandoned its aggressive ambitions. 
	
	
 Convinced that the United States can never abandon it completely, Israel is dragging its feet on the withdrawal of troops citing a variety of excuses. 
	
	
 Israel is adamantly against the creation of a completely independent Palestinian state. Israel's scheme is to make Palestine a vassal state and bring it under its control. This is why Israel agreed to discuss the issue of granting independence to Palestine on conditions that Palestine claim only a small piece of territory and waive its right to raise [organize] a regular army. 
	
	
 As such, Israel's territorial ambition is persistent and clever. 
	
	
 The US administration is about to call on Israel to support the creation of a Palestinian state with East Kuds as its capital. 
	
	
 Commenting on this, many Arab states and international opinion emphatically said that it is nothing more than a political stratagem to win support for its war in Afghanistan and to further expand the sphere of its domination in the Middle East. 
	
	
 The United States, which has been in the van of invading other countries, is about to put pressure on Israel, not because it is now more sympathetic to Palestine or finds Palestine more tolerable than before, but because of its own national interests. 
	
	
 It is quite obvious that Israel will employ a crafty trick in the future to realize its burning territorial ambition. It is also obvious that the aggressive US policy toward the Middle East will remain unchanged. 
	
	
 The prospect for the settlement of the Middle East issue is still bleak due to those who stand in the way of the settlement. 
	
	
	


	
A 26 November 2001 article in Zhongguo Renkou Bao reported that in April 2001, the State Family Planning Commission initiated its transprovincial floating population investigation by surveying the marriage, birth, and birth control situations of 27,879 migrant women between the ages of 15 and 49. 
	
	
 Of the women surveyed, 87.2 percent (24,310) were married, higher than the national average of 82.3 percent (according to the 1997 National Population and Reproductive Health Survey). The average number of 15- to 19-year-old migrant women who are married with children is higher than the national average. The average for migrant women in the other age groups is lower than the national average. 
	
	
 Only about 30 percent of the migrant women who are married with two or more children have obtained official migrant population marriage documentation as required by the Procedures For Managing Floating Population Family Planning. This is less than the registration rate of migrant women with no or one child. 
	
	
 The percentage of married migrant women using contraceptives is 90.6 percent, higher than the national average of 83.4 percent. Moreover, those with children mostly use long-term contraceptive methods. The rate of using long-term contraceptive methods is higher among women with one son than women with one daughter. Those with two children mostly undergo sterilization. However, the use of sterilization among "households with two daughters" is significantly less than among households with at least one son. 
	
	
 This document is based exclusively on the content and behavior of selected foreign public media. It is issued without coordination with other U.S. Government components.	


	
JOHANNESBURG March 16 Sapa MBEKI TO MEET WITH MUGABE AND TSVANGIRAI IN HARARE ON MONDAY 
	
	
 (CORRECTS TITLE OF AUSTRALIAN PM, UPDATES WITH ZUMA ATTENDING INAUGURATION) President Thabo Mbeki would fly to Harare on Monday to meet Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe and later with opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, presidential spokesman Bheki Khumalo told Sapa on Saturday. 
	
	
 Khumalo said Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo would also attend the talks, which would culminate on Tuesday when the two met Australian Prime Minister John Howard in London. Mugabe was to be inaugurated again as Zimbabwean president on Sunday following his controversial re-election last weekend. He was first elected Prime Minister in 1980 and has effectively ruled the country ever since. 
	
	
 Mbeki, Obasanjo and Howard have been mandated by the recent Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Australia to decide what action should be taken on the situation in Zimbabwe. Their decision would be based on the Commonwealth observer team's report on the legitimacy of the election as well as those prepared by the Southern African Development Community, the Organisation of African Unity and the SA Observer Mission. The Commonwealth team earlier this week said that "the conditions in Zimbabwe did not adequately allow the free and fair expression of will by the electorate". 
	
	
 The SADC on Saturday endorsed the vote, despite its Parliamentary Forum, which judging that the March 9-11 election "did not conform with the norms and standards of the SADC Parliamentary Forum," signed on to by Zimbabwe. The team from the organisation's Council of Ministers, on the other hand, considered the vote a "true reflection" of the people's will. 
	
	
 The Organisation of African Unity (OAU) also backed Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's re-election, with its observer team describing the poll as "transparent, credible, free and fair". South Africa's observer mission also endorsed the vote, saying in an interim report that "(o)verall ... the authorities charged with conducting the elections discharged their work satisfactorily." The team acknowledged that the election campaign had been characterised by "polarisation, tension and incidents of violence and intimidation." In terms of the Commonwealth's mandate, action against Zimbabwe could range from collective disapproval to suspension. 
	
	
 Mbeki was, however, already on the record as saying that the Commonwealth also had other issues to consider. CHOGM had also decided to look at ways of helping Zimbabwe with land reform and food aid. State-sanctioned land invasions, several times declared illegal by Zimbabwe's courts, as well as a drought have disrupted Zimbabwe's food production and famine is already looming in much of the country. 
	
	
 Meanwhile, Foreign Affairs spokesman Ronnie Mamoepa said Mbeki's deputy, Jacob Zuma would represent the country at the controversially re-elected President Robert Mugabe's latest inauguration, scheduled for Sunday in Harare. No reason was provided why Mbeki could not attend. Reports from Lagos indicated that Obasanjo would also not attend. 
	
	
 Several other heads of state had by Saturday indicated they would attend, including Tanzania's Benjamin Nkapa and Malawi's Bakili Muluzi, currently also the SADC's president. Mamoepa said the key points on the agenda now was Zimbabwe's economic recovery and social stability "within the context of national unity." 
	
	
 Source : Sapa /le/pk Date : 16 Mar 2002 17:36	


	
Foreign Minister Celso Lafer transmitted a warning to United States Secretary of State Colin Powell, with whom he spent 30 minutes yesterday, from the Brazilian Government: without help from the US, Argentina could enter a state of social rebellion and open a new front of geopolitical instability in South America. Powell's reaction, according to a Planalto source, was one of "interest and attention". No more than that. The Brazilian Government's perception of Argentina's future is pessimistic. "Their economic agenda alone is overwhelming," the source commented. It requires the creation of a Central Bank capable of administering a floating exchange rate system and a regime of inflation goals; the establishment of a safety network for the debilitated financial system; the restructuring of the tax policy, and the elaboration of a law that ensures fiscal discipline. Without US help, via the IMF, the country will not be able to attain the most basic economic, social and political stability, and could contaminate the subcontinent, Lafer warned. 
	
	
 [passage omitted] 
	
	
 "La plata" or social rebellion 
	
	
 Foreign Minister Celso Lafer carried a dramatic warning from President Fernando Henrique Cardoso to the US Government. In his conversation with Secretary of State Colin Powell, the Brazilian Foreign Minister stated clearly that to leave Argentina to its own fate, as seems to be the George Bush administration's choice, is to pave the way for social rebellion there, which will contaminate other countries on the continent and create another area of political instability on the planet. 
	
	
 The Argentina theme was also covered in Lafer's talks yesterday with Commerce Secretary Don Evans and with US Trade Representative Robert Zoellick. According to a Planalto Palace source, the reaction from Powell as well as from Evans and Zoellick was of "interest and attention". Nothing more. 
	
	
 Translating roughly, what Minister Lafer tried to tell the Americans is that the financial cost of an international rescue of Argentina, now, led by the IMF and other multilateral credit agencies, will be lower than the cost of fighting, later on, chaos in its social, political, and - why not? - military forms on the continent. 
	
	
 South America is already living with complex problems in Venezuela and, above all, in Colombia, where President Andres Pastrana is unable to combat the guerrilla activities of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia [FARC] and failed in the recent attempt to negotiate an agreement with its militants. For Brazilian diplomacy, Pastrana lost time and credibility on a failed bet: the negotiations with FARC, letting them control territory the size of Switzerland in the heart of the continent. 
	
	
 To add a country like Argentina to this list of problems is to allow the growth of a dangerous focus of social dissatisfaction, which is tending to express itself outside of any institutional control. Argentine society is divorcing itself from political parties and national institutions, and it is in such an environment that radical responses germinate, such as authoritarian regimes and the formation of guerrilla groups. 
	
	
 The ill effects of the Argentine crisis can contaminate the nearest countries first, like Paraguay, Uruguay and Bolivia. And there is no guarantee that a political destabilization of the region would bypass even Chile, where memories of the military dictatorship are still very strong. One cannot ignore the fact that, only 20 years ago, all these countries - including Brazil and Peru - were ruled by generals. 
	
	
 There is an entire. political and diplomatic argument in the conversations with representatives of the Bush government that transcends the economic-financial discussions, to which the subject was restricted, and which encompasses the very survival of democracy in South America. It is a new approach, which tries to sensitize US authorities through the use of geopolitical arguments. Not to take into account the impact of destabilization in South America in a world already complicated by the Middle East, India versus Pakistan, Afghanistan, and badly-resolved problems in Eastern Europe, "is not to have a strategic vision," according to the assessment that is being made in Planalto Palace and which was clearly emphasized during Lafer's meetings with Powell, Zoellick and Evans. 
	
	
 The Brazilian Government's perception of Argentina's future is pessimistic. There is a stress factor in the content and volume of the needs of that country, which on its own will not be able to take the steps absolutely necessary for its reconstruction. This is the understanding of sources very close to President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, and it is also guiding the analyses of the economic department. 
	
	
 What is underway in the neighboring country, according to information gathered by the Brazilian Government, is the establishment of a Central Bank - which 10 years ago abdicated from the traditional functions of currency and credit manager - that is capable of working with a floating exchange rate system and a regime of inflation goals, like Brazil's Central Bank; a safety network for the financial system whose health is already extremely undermined; the restructuring of the tax policy so that the tax collection machine can create conditions for the government to draw up a budget without so many uncertainties; and a fiscal responsibility law that imposes some discipline on the relationship between central government and the provinces. 
	
	
 "This is the minimum that has to be done. Their economic agenda alone is overwhelming," comments one high-ranking member of the Brazilian Government. Alone, and under the command of a president who managed to create a strong political coalition explained only by his own survival instinct, Argentines will be unable to attain the most basic economic, social and political stability. How does this affect Brazil? To answer a question of this nature, the Brazilian Foreign Minister would surely resort to Ortega y Gasset: "I am I and my circumstances. If I do not save them, I do not save myself." 
	
	
 [passage omitted] 
	
	
	


	
Tomorrow the government will announce a comprehensive economic and social plan based on the complete elimination of the dollar as a monetary standard through the conversion of deposits and loans into pesos. 
	
	
 For those owing less than $100,000, the conversion will be done at the rate of one to one. For those who owe between $100,000 and $300,000, the conversion rate will be 1.2 to 1, with the government making up the difference between this rate and that of the official dollar. It will help out the banks, as El Cronista reported, by giving them a bond or certificate against future revenues from the tax on crude oil exports (5 billion) and with part of the assistance that the IMF will reportedly provide (4 billion). Debts of more than $300,000 will continue to be converted at 1.4 to 1. 
	
	
 Barring last minute changes, no announcement is expected about allowing the peso to float freely, as the IMF would like, or about changes in the timetable for easing bank withdrawal restrictions. Under these restrictions, which were established by Domingo Cavallo and tightened by his successor, Jorge Remes Lenicov, the country's savers are barred from accessing more than 65 billion (pesos and mainly dollars) that they have on deposit. 
	
	
 This constraint, combined with the difficulties of even withdrawing money for daily use from salary direct-deposit accounts, has heightened social unrest, as people have staged marches, banging on pots and pans, and other demonstrations to protest the prevailing economic situation. 
	
	
 Some analysts feel that the fledgling Duhalde administration is making a mistake by ending convertibility without first resolving the problems that will arise from this decision, which was a foregone conclusion here in Argentina and the rest of the world. What is more, the IMF tried to convince Cavallo to abandon the one-to-one peg in an orderly fashion. 
	
	
 The fact that the former minister and President Fernando de la Rua, who later stepped down, were opposed to such a move drove the IMF even further away from lending any support. Its last show of support was the $8 billion in aid to support the "zero deficit" tactic. 
	
	
 Such budgetary discipline turned out to be impossible, thus shattering the rigid convertibility system and putting entire sectors of the economy out of commission. Lack of confidence led to massive withdrawals of savings into safer places. 
	
	
 The outflows forced some banks to ask the government to set limits. Cavallo could think of nothing better than the curbs on withdrawals. According to former Minister Roque Fernandez, it was "the worst mistake in the history of the Argentine economy," while influential businessman Arnaldo Musich (FIEL [Latin American Economic Research Foundation]-Techint) considered it an "inexcusable" mistake. 
	
	
 Burdensome Legacy 
	
	
 The last of the provisional governments that took over from the abbreviated De la Rua administration decided quickly to end the currency board system. But not until tomorrow, one month after taking office, will it announce a comprehensive plan to overcome the worst crisis in the country's history. 
	
	
 Duhalde will confirm that $2 billion will be made available immediately to mitigate the social disaster. This money was approved by the World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank. 
	
	
 Accompanied by Remes, he will talk tomorrow about what the assistance will be used for: to fulfill the promise to create a million jobs, to provide basic health care, and to undertake small infrastructure projects. The president will also mention imminent political reform, which he will call on Congress to enact. 
	
	
 The rest of his remarks will be solely about the economy, about which millions of Argentines have been obsessed for some years now. Mortgage loans, the debts of small and mid-sized companies, and automotive loans under $100,000 will be paid back in the identical amount of pesos. The same will go for secured loans under $300,000 and personal loans of up to $10,000. 
	
	
 Debts over these amounts will have to be repaid at 1.4 to 1, although the government will defray 20 cents on the dollar so that debtors will actually pay 1.2 pesos. 
	
	
 The banking restrictions will, for the time being, remain unchanged, but the tacit assumption is that the timetable for easing them will be speeded up "as soon as conditions permit." It has been confirmed that there will be "coupons" for savers who want to buy things, with their frozen funds as collateral. 
	
	
 The president will also break down the budget for the press and promise to issue currency in a controlled manner (not to exceed 3.5 billion pesos) and to undertake the difficult task of reversing the sudden decline in wealth (4.9 percent) without pushing inflation beyond 15 percent. 
	
	
 The dollar will be allowed to float as soon as possible, as the government has promised the IMF. Everything depends on the anticipated aid of between $15 billion and $20 billion, which is what has been requested of Washington. 
	
	
 Adjustment Index Will Be New Variable 
	
	
 One of the points on which the Duhalde administration's economic plan will be based is a monetary benchmark that will govern the issuance of pesos and the refunding of deposits in dollars that have been frozen in accounts. 
	
	
 To this end, Jorge Remes Lenicov's economic team has developed an index or formula including such parameters as projected annual inflation rates, the government's budget, the exchange rate of the dollar, and issuance of money by the Central Bank. 
	
	
 This system, which will serve as a financial tool for redrafting most of the contracts involving economic activity in the new, post-convertibility era, is similar to the "Celic" index that Brazil uses or the "Unidad de Fomento" that Chile used until August 2001. 
	
	
 The monetary benchmark that Brazil employs and that Chile used to is the most common one in today's world and is based on an inflation target. On the basis of this target a rule is developed to determine the interest rate needed to hit the target for price rises. The amount of money issued thus winds up being a function of these variables, not a target in itself, so that monetary policy can be used as a tool for promoting economic recovery. 
	
	
 Until August of last year Chile had an incremental adjustment mechanism that included an exchange rate band with a ceiling and floor. Monetary adjustments were based on what was called the "unidad de fomento," an indexing system that included various price indices and adjusted contracts in accordance with actual changes. 
	
	
 Brazil started using an inflation target once its 1999 devaluation stabilized the real and achieved low inflation. 
	
	
 The government explained that it theoretically saw tools like the "unidad de fomento" as a way of adjusting the deposits of savers that will remain subject to restrictions until at least next year. The index will persumably not be applied for another two or three months, and it has not been ruled out that it may include loans already converted into pesos. 
	
	
 Renes is working alongside a group of technicians from the IMF, World Bank, US Treasury Department, and Central Bank of Brazil, whose services were also used during the crises in Mexico and Indonesia. 
	
	
 [Buenos Aires Ambito Financiero in Spanish on 1 February adds the following: "The following are the main measures that will be announced tomorrow: 
	
	
 "'Dirty' float for the dollar: The decision has been made to abolish the official exchange rate (1.4 pesos to the dollar) and to move towards a single, floating rate. The Central Bank will intervene in the market, but only to prevent sudden swings. Intermediate solutions have been completely ruled out, such as periodic adjustments of the exchange rate (a crawling peg) or a band, which would oblige the Central Bank to intervene by selling dollars to defend a given value of the peso. The government wanted to wait until it had sealed an accord with the IMF before going to a float. But since the negotiations will take several weeks, as Remes will not be flying to Washington until 14 February, the idea is to move ahead before receiving international aid. Another possibility is to have released at least the $2.6 billion that has been pending disbursement since December in order to bolster reserves before the peso is allowed to float. 
	
	
 "Total release of salary direct-deposit accounts: All employees will soon be able to access their entire salary by making cash withdrawals from savings accounts. This will completely eliminate the ceiling of 1,500 pesos per month that had been set in the January version of the banking restrictions. This measure will benefit only the 4 percent of workers who earn more than that amount, which until now was subject to the restrictions. The danger, which the economic team is aware of, is that any additional money withdrawn will go straight into purchases of dollars since this could represent the percentage of income that an individual is able to save. The measure is designed to send a signal so that people gradually regain confidence. Raising the withdrawal ceiling in the case of regular savings accounts to 1,500 pesos a month was under consideration yesterday, but for now the limit of 1,200 a month will continue to apply, with the possibility of gradual increases in the near future. 
	
	
 "Deposits to be converted into pesos at 1.4 to 1: Time deposits in dollars will be converted into pesos at the official rate. Once they have been converted, the refund timetable for dollar deposits will initially be maintained. In other words, refunds will not begin until January 2003. If an agreement is reached with the IMF and economic conditions improve, the timetable will likely be moved forward so that people can get cash. The possibility of keeping a portion of a time deposit in dollars, which President Duhalde has requested, has not been altogether ruled out, but there are legal problems with implementing it. In the case of time deposits in pesos, the refund timetable is being maintained; it provides for withdrawals in cash as of March. 
	
	
 "Installment checks for time deposits: The money subject to a refund timetable may be used for purchases, but with restrictions. It cannot be credited to demand deposit accounts. Therefore, it can be used only to purchase items such as cars and apartments. The 12, 18, or 24 installments into which time deposits will be divided, depending on their amount, may be endorsed. Transfer of the time deposit will be authorized only in the case of a purchase. But the account holder will not be able to move it from one bank to another. The big drawback to this system is that hardly anyone will be willing to sell real estate for peso-denominated installment checks that can be cashed sometime in the future. They can be used, though, for smaller transactions or to pay for part of a purchase. 
	
	
 "Issuance of bonds indexed according to the value of the dollar: The Central Bank will soon start issuing bonds in pesos to offer the public another alternative to purchasing dollars. The idea is to issue very short-term bills (30 days, for now) that will be indexed to any ongoing depreciation. An arrangement with an attractive implicit interest rate could also be devised. It will not be easy, of course, to drum up demand with the country in full-fledged default. 
	
	
 "No withholding on oil exports: In conclusion, the government has decided to reverse itself on the 20 percent tax that it was planning to levy on these exports. 'We would not have raised all that much money and would have been sending a very bad signal overseas by discriminating between sectors,' acknowledged a senior source in the Economy Ministry. In any event, the oil industry may be asked for an advance on taxes due, as had been under consideration a couple of weeks ago. If any withholding arrangement is implemented, it will apply to all exports, not just some. 
	
	
 "Bonds in dollars to compensate banks: The banks will receive long-term government bonds in dollars as compensation for the losses that will arise from conversion into pesos on their balance sheets. Estimates are that under the arrangement that has been devised the red ink will total more than 12 billion pesos or some $6 billion. The banks have also agreed with this option. They wold rather hold a financial claim on the government than place the entire burden on their debtors, who would be forced to declare bankruptcy if they got no relief. 
	
	
 "Phase 1 of the swap remains in dollars: Banks, Pension and Retirement Fund Management Companies, and insurance companies exerted strong pressure to prevent all accounts from being converted into pesos at 1.4 to 1. They managed to keep their bonds in foreign currency and are supposed to start collecting interest this April. It is likely, however, that before that the government will move ahead with a comprehensive debt rescheduling, including international and local investors who were involved in the first phase of the swap."] 
	
	
	


	
Hamburg -- Some 200 German Border Guard officers working in cooperation with the Hamburg prosecutors' office on Wednesday cracked a ring of Afghan smugglers who have been operating throughout Europe. 
	
	
 Officials say that the smuggling ring had been illegally bringing fellow nationals into Germany via Austria since at least October 2001. Many of the refugees then travelled by rail from Hamburg to Britain via Brussels. Others took trains, vans and cars onto ferries destined for Scandinavia. The Afghans paid gang members up to 9,000 euros ($7,900) to make the trip. 
	
	
 The border guard officers searched a total of 16 apartments, stores and offices downtown and in Hamburg's Altona, Billstedt, Schnelsen, and Harburg districts, detaining 14 suspects. An arrest warrant for the suspected leader of the gang, an Afghan, was also served. Police seized 33,9000 euros -- believed to be earnings from smuggling operations -- in the apartment of the 35-year-old suspected ringleader. 
	
	
 Two men who were working with him, an Afghan and a Pakistani, were arrested as well. Eleven others were taken into custody, seven of whom were also members of the smuggling ring. The remaining four turned out to be Afghan refugees. A further four suspects were arrested in a similar operation in Frankfurt. 
	
	
 Police interrogators were told the refugees had been "parked" and were working illegally in northern Germany until they could be moved to other locations. 
	
	
 Sites in the towns of Ratzeburg and Uelzen were also searched in connection with the raid, said Wieland Mozdzynski, director of the Hamburg office of the border guard. 
	
	
 Mr. Mozdzynski said that during the operation, which stretched as far as the state of Bavaria and Austria, police had uncovered an "international network of groups, each with specific tasks." He added that the groups worked independently, but exploited existing contacts regularly. According to a police spokesman, more than 500 officers took part in the joint operation. 
	
	
 Another officer said the loose structure of the smuggling ring made the investigation more difficult. He said that the bust was nevertheless a significant and successful strike against gangs and businesses engaged in human smuggling.	


	
Kazakhstan's main seaport does brisk business 
	
	
 Text of report by Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency 
	
	
 Aktau, 22 January. The Aktau Sea Trading Port republican state enterprise (RSE) on the Caspian Sea (situated in Mangistau Region of western Kazakhstan) handled over 116,000 tonnes of cargo between 14 and 21 January [2002]. As Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency learnt at the RSE, a total of 79,000 tonnes of oil and oil products and 37,044 tonnes of dry cargo were transshipped through the port during the quoted period. On the whole, according to the RSE, 343,735 tonnes of cargo were handled through Aktau seaport between 1 and 21 January. A total of 261,841 tonnes of oil and oil products and 81,894 tonnes of dry cargo have been transshipped through the port since the start of January. Aktau seaport is Kazakhstan's only international seaport with annual transshipment capacity of 1.5m tonnes of dry cargo and 8m tonnes of oil and oil products.	


	

	
	
 Text of report by Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency 
	
	
 Baykonur, 15 March: Preparations on the Progress M-1 N257 transport spacecraft, which is scheduled to be launched to the International Space Station (ISS) on 21 March, are nearing completion at the Baykonur space vehicle launching site [in Kazakhstan]. Specialists at the space vehicle launching site told an Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency correspondent that Progress had been filled with rocket fuel components and compressed gases and it had been taken to an installing and testing facility of the Energiya [Energy] Rocket Space Corporation for the final operations to be carried out. The general assembly of the Soyuz-U booster-rocket (BR), which is to boost Progress M-1, is scheduled for 18 March. After the BR has been assembled, the state commission will take a decision to take the rocket to the launching site. A total of six space launches from Baykonur, including four cargo launches, scheduled within the ISS programme this year.	


	
New York -- The warlike tone of the State of the Union speech delivered by George Bush Tuesday evening has prompted responses as critical abroad as they are enthusiastic in the United States. Be that as it may, the aim pursued by the White House seems to have been achieved. This is to re-mobilize the country behind the war on terrorism and to prevent Americans, by returning to a more normal life, from concerning themselves chiefly with the daily repercussions of the Enron affair and rising unemployment. 
	
	
 In his fellow countrymen's eyes, the test constituted by 11 September has revealed George Bush's talents as a war leader. He is clearly more comfortable in this role than he is in he management of routine matters. His force of conviction when he preaches the struggle of good against evil largely explains his exceptional popularity ratings (83 percent of favorable opinions, according to the latest ABC and Washington Post surveys.) So on Tuesday evening George Bush tried to reproduce the tone of his 20 September speech in order to galvanize the country. "The United States will not allow the world's most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the most destructive weapons. Whatever the cost of our country's defense, we will pay it. The evil is real, and it must be combated... even in the midst of tragedy, specially in the midst of tragedy, God is there..." 
	
	
 The unanimous opinion of the media is that he was successful in this. His speech was "brilliant, full of strength and eloquence. The pursuit of the war on terrorism has given Americans a new illustration of his character and his confidence in the country's leadership," the New York Times said. According to the Washington Post , "the President's intensity was equal to the need to pursue the war." Television commentaries were even more full of praise. "Solid and often eloquent remarks," CBS' Ran Rather said. CNN's Bill Bennett called it "a speech of moral strength." According to Fox's Juan Williams, "the words came straight from the heart." 
	
	
 The condemnation of the "axis of evil" comprising Iran, Iraq, and North Korea was applauded by Republican and Democrat hawks, and barely challenged by a few foreign relations experts. George Bush has succeeded not only in returning the war to the front pages of the newspapers, ousting the Enron affair and the budget deficit, but also in forcing the Democratic opposition to unite against the enemy. Dick Gephardt, the Democratic leader in the House of Representatives, and Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader in the Senate, have attempted the impossible feat of "setting partisan attitudes aside and supporting our President 100 percent in the war on terrorism," while at the same time trying to criticize economic and social policy. 
	
	
 As for responses abroad, in order to make them somewhat less sharp, the administration has introduced some qualifications. This, among other things, by specifying that no military operations are planned against any of the three countries cited. White House spokesman Ari Fleischer even added that the expression "axis of evil" was not used in an allusion to the notorious Rome-Berlin-Tokyo axis. 
	
	
 However, George Bush is not about to change his rhetoric. "In the antiterrorist struggle, as far as I am concerned there is black and white, and no shades of gray," he said Thursday 31 January during an election campaign visit to Atlanta, Georgia, and to Daytona beach, Florida. 
	
	
 The President said he was confident about the US allies' support against countries trying to acquire mass destruction weapons. "The rest of the world needs to be with us, because such weapons can be targeted on them as well as on us." He again urged these countries to "clean their own homes." "If you are one of the countries that develops mass destruction weapons, and you are willing to ally with a terrorist group, or you currently support terrorism, or if you do not sincerely share the values precious to us, then you too will be under surveillance," he said. 
	
	
	


	
Cuito, 25 Jan (Angop)- A road convoy which came in from Benguela Province carrying 1,500 metric tons of assorted goods arrived in the city of Cuito, the capital of Bie Province, on Tuesday [22 Jan]. The aim of this aid is to reduce the shortages faced by local population. 
	
	
 According to convoy chief Eusebio da Silva Ferreira, the convoy included 35 trucks, and it ferried 720 metric tons of corn, 623 metric tons of peas, and 157 metric tons of beans. He added that the above mentioned products will help offset the difficult social conditions of more than 460,000 people in need in the province. 
	
	
 These aid goods have arrived at a time when the World Food Program, WFP is cutting down on air transportation of aid to Bie Province from 3,500 metric tons to 2,000 metric tons. This is because of the high costs involved, and the poor conditions of the local landing strip. Because of these problems, the WFP has not been able to provide all the necessary assistance to people in need, who are estimated to total more than 460,000. 
	
	
	


	
These days, when everything seems to be collapsing in the Middle East, both the Palestinians' chances of finally having a state in which their people would be sovereign, and the Israelis' chances of integrating themselves into a region where -- need we be reminded? -- the Arabs are in the overwhelming majority, we believe it our duty to voice a few basic truths. 
	
	
 One of us is a Palestinian patriot (and not a nationalist). The other has no other homeland than France, which does not, however, lead him to deny his heritage from ancient Israel (which contains, like all heritages, the best and the worst) nor to be indifferent to the destiny of those millions of Jews who have something in common with him. 
	
	
 We are both historians. 
	
	
 However, we will not look back at the entire century that has just passed. There was a quarrel concerning Zionism. Those involved in it had no shortage of arguments, whether Arab, Jewish, or simply clear-headed. Zionism established itself in a sensitive region of the world at a time when nothing seemed more "normal" than to settle in someone else's territory. 
	
	
 The United States, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand were all created at the conclusion of a colonial process. 
	
	
 No one today challenges their existence despite the crises arising from this process and which were cited by an Aboriginal athlete at the Olympic Games in Sydney. 
	
	
 Likewise, the more recent creation of Israel was accompanied, under the indifferent gaze of the Western and Soviet world, by the forced exodus of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians. Today, these refugees and their descendants do not call into question the existence of the state of Israel as long as the injustice suffered is recognized and the implementation of their rights is negotiated fairly. 
	
	
 Let us content ourselves with reiterating the evidence: Since June 1967, the West Bank and Gaza have been occupied and dominated territories, crushed politically, socially, economically. Despite this, the Palestinian resistance has formally recognized the existence of Israel and begun a peace process in Oslo, while the state of Israel has recognized the Palestinians represented by the PLO and its leader Yasser Arafat. 
	
	
 This process has not achieved its goal. 
	
	
 On the Palestinian side, feeding on the growing frustration of the occupied population, a wing has broken off, conducting a policy of terror and death that horrifies us. 
	
	
 On the Israeli side, despite the process, settlement has increased considerably, eating away at the supposedly autonomous Palestinian territories crisscrossed by "bypass roads." 
	
	
 Today, two forms of terrorism fuel each other. Palestinian terrorism, which existed on a very small scale in the time of Yitzhak Rabin, has taken on a dramatic dimension. But the Israeli response, with its "extra-judicial liquidations," is even more dramatic in a certain sense. It now resembles the destruction of the very people, so structured and organized is it. 
	
	
 Like any form of state terrorism, it is above all contradictory. Yesterday, Yasser Arafat was being asked to police the area he was supposed to be in charge of, while destroying the instruments of his power. Today, he is being completely isolated and the desire to drive him away is scarcely disguised. 
	
	
 Ariel Sharon's immediate exploitation of the 11 September massacres is an unmistakable sign. Sharon compared Arafat to Bin Ladin and Mullah Omar put together. Whom does he think he resembles, if not the perpetrator of the Sabra and Shatila massacres? 
	
	
 How to escape from this situation? From the current perspective, three solutions seem "logical." 
	
	
 The first is the expulsion of the Palestinians from what is known as Eretz Israel, from all of Mandatory Palestine. A recently assassinated minister favored this solution. Can we seriously imagine the crimes that would have to be committed to achieve this result? Can anyone believe that the Arab world could approve of it? What would then remain of the universal character of the prophets of Israel -- that of the second Isaiah, for example -- and of Israeli citizens' hope of one day living in peace in this region? 
	
	
 The other solution is the opposite of the first one: the departure of the Israelis to more hospitable climes, in the United States or Europe. It is absolutely impossible for the time being. But in the future? What would remain of the ideals of those who saw themselves as their liberators of their people and as builders? Asking this question at least serves as a reminder that, although many have already left, thereby reinventing the Diaspora, the Israelis want to stay and do not intend to end up like French Algeria. 
	
	
 The third solution consists of coexistence, whether it takes the form of two separate states or a federation or a confederation. 
	
	
 Two basic principles could still, perhaps, make it possible. 
	
	
 The first is that of not only civic, but also social and economic, equality. This principle applies primarily to the attitudes that must prevail during any future negotiations. It also applies for Palestinian citizens of Israel who, 53 years after the creation of the state, are still far from equal. It furthermore holds for the Israelis who decide to remain in Palestinian territory and who must no longer be encysted there. 
	
	
 The second is that of reciprocity. Any renunciation of sovereignty by either party must be compensated by the other. This applies to all the problems under discussion, including, of course, the issue of Jerusalem and of the refugees. 
	
	
 It must be acknowledged that the government of Ariel Sharon has so far taken the opposite tack and that, while he has grudgingly recognized the Palestinians' right to a state, it has been under conditions such that this state, reduced to a series of Bantustans, has no chance of living and developing peacefully. Extremists on both sides have clearly understood this and have derived nothing but encouragement from it. 
	
	
 The Israeli ambassador in France, Elie Barnavi, recently made two contradictory statements: That all those who, like Nurit Peled, believe that the Sharon government is a "government of death" could easily fit into a telephone booth... and that by their existence they constitute Israel's very honor. 
	
	
 We still want to hope that the "rest of Israel," as the prophets called it, is the "mustard seed" another prophet referred to. 
	
	
 We do hope so, against all hope. 
	
	
	


	
December 5, was a Wednesday like any other for the 24 executive directors of the International Monetary Fund [IMF]. Three meetings - on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays - under the chairmanship of the institution's director general, Germany's Horst Kohler, usually punctuate their weekly schedule. During these meetings, they review various subjects and in particular the achievements of "under program" countries. That particular morning, it was Argentina's turn. It is the victim of an explosive situation at the economic, political and social levels. And yet, the problem was disposed of in two hours. Since the economic targets the government had promised, particularly the one on a zero budget deficit, were not reached, the board felt it was unable to "recommend" releasing a new $1.264 billion tranche that had been scheduled for December as part of last year's $22 billion program for Argentina. 
	
	
 Shortly thereafter, the institution's spokesman, Thomas Dawson, declared "the [Argentine] authorities have to reach the program goals they set for themselves" before they can get any more money. Moreover, he found the measures taken by the government to control the [movement] of foreign exchange and limit the flight of capital were "regrettable", even though these measures were made more flexible later on. According to an eyewitness, this cut and dry, accounting-like decision taken by civil servants, who thus have the power of "life or death" over a country, was not the subject of any debate. It was taken following the presentation of a report by Chile's Thomas Reichmann, the chief of mission who had been sent to Buenos Aires. The figures spoke for themselves. At most, a few differences in sensitivity emerged over whether or not the issue should remain closed from one to two months or if the discussions with Argentina should continue. The latter was adopted in the end. This was the only concession made to a government that has been struggling to restructure its domestic public debt to avoid having the country simply default on its debt. 
	
	
 Unconditional Support 
	
	
 In essence, it seems that they all agreed on one thing: meeting a commitment is inviolable. This position is surprising all the same because the history of the IMF is lined with derogations. We have stopped counting the number of times financial bailout plans have been set up to help this or that government in difficulty. We also stopped counting the unconditional support the institution has given some heads of state, who are neither especially virtuous nor especially democratic, because it was in the political, commercial and economic interest of the United States to do so. 
	
	
 This was the case in particular for Russia, Brazil and now Pakistan. In the case of Russia, it was a matter of helping the former soviet giant consolidate its emerging democracy. For Brazil, the Fund intervened in October 1998, between two rounds in the presidential election, to support Fernando Henrique Cardoso's reelection because his macroeconomic options fell in line with the Fund's requirements, contrary to his leftist adversary, Luis Inacio "Lula" da Silva. In the case of Pakistan, it is this country's geostrategic position in the current crisis that serves to justify the avalanche of loans and trade facilities that are being granted to Islamabad. 
	
	
 Argentina has none of these worthy arguments. Yet, over the past ten years, it has done everything it can to be considered one of the IMF's good pupils. The government adopted a fixed parity between the dollar and the peso in 1991 in order to stop unrestricted inflation. Buenos Aires privatized, on Washington's recommendation, all of its public companies. The government, without assets to sell and without the possibility of falling back on the devaluation of its currency, is now condemned to keep on asking for foreign capital to maintain its balance of payments in equilibrium. Hence, a foreign debt of $130 billion and the urgent need for an inflow of capital from the IMF to repay $2 billion in debt that is coming due on 19 December. In the event of non-payment, the country will find itself an outcast of the international financial community. 
	
	
 The IMF administrators' bookkeeping-based decision marks a toughening of its policy, which America's republicans, who are especially critical of the Fund's past largesse, have called for over the past years. The first illustration of a change in the position of the United States (the Fund's leading shareholder) toward countries that may squander the American taxpayer's money was the arrival in September of Ann Krueger, an ultraliberal American, as number two at the IMF. Moreover, the "Argentine case" falls at a bad time. President Bush now needs parliamentary votes to get more powers on trade negotiation matters and a green light on the economic stimulation plan that has been dragging along for the past two months. The president could not take any risk of ruffling the republicans. Furthermore, Argentina is not a priority for the Americans now, confides a member of the IMF. Also, the risk that its bankruptcy will cause a chain reaction and lead to a grave crisis among emerging nations is, according to economists, not very likely or at most limited. Brazil has had time to lessen its dependence on trade links with Argentina. The other emerging nations are calling on foreign capital less since the Asian crisis and a sharp ebb in investments would not have the dramatic impact that it had in 1997-1998. Will Argentina be declared bankrupt on 19 December? The fate of 30 million Argentines depends on this. Regardless of what happens, the current extremely perilous situation is another setback for the IMF. It has been following Argentina's national accounting with a magnifying glass for the past ten years and it has shown it is incapable of guaranteeing the country's financial equilibrium just as most of the countries that submit to its demands. 
	
	
 
	
	
	


	
[Passage omitted -- on the Bush administration's budget for controlling climate changes; the attitudes of Australia, Canada, the European Union, and China; and the terms of the Kyoto Protocol] 
	
	
 The US President preferred a more realistic attitude, because it is hard to believe that it will be possible to fully eliminate pollutant gas emissions in one decade. What is also realistic is the idea that it will be easier to persuade the main polluting agents to take measures by providing incentives to them, rather than by constraint. No matter how cynical this may appear, the US administration is mainly concerned with getting out of the recession and with relaunching the economy, rather than with the greenhouse effect.	


	
The buffer zones that Ariel Sharon intends to establish are an explicit admission that Israelis can no longer live by the sword, that the occupation is not working, and Israeli reprisals are not meeting with success. Thinking of building a Great Wall of China in the Middle East, replete with elaborate fences and tunnels, is conceding that Israel is not safe, not a normal country. It cannot integrate itself into the region, it is an alien seedling and, thus, it is better to isolate and fortify itself as a lowly outpost. 
	
	
 A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation. But separation will not mean an end to the occupation and no Israeli government can provide security as long as it persists in its efforts to maintain its presence beyond Israel's pre-1967 borders and to retain territories inhabited by millions of Palestinians. By now, it should be clear to everyone that retaliating against every act of Palestinian resistance with Israel's superior ability to punish Palestinians does not provide the security that Israelis are demanding. 
	
	
 The only way out of the current spiral of violence is for Israel to limit itself to areas within which it can assume responsibility for its citizens' security. This means a return to Israel's pre-1967 borders. 
	
	
 Practically speaking, a buffer zone will be near impossible to erect. A physical border between Israel and a new Palestinian state will be twisted and distorted to accommodate Jewish settlers in the West Bank and Gaza. Unilateral separation without a negotiated agreement could be realized - only if Israel is willing to uproot around 100 settlements. Sharon says flatly he will not withdraw from a single settlement. He thinks that every settlement is important and is determined that Israelis must retain as much land in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as possible. 
	
	
 Then there is the eventual goal of the peace process: the coexistence of Israel with the state of Palestine. But Israel has not once deigned to propose that the Palestinians live with the Israelis as full citizens in the same sate. Israel does not want the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own. 
	
	
 By a margin of 2-1, Israelis think Sharon has no plan to end the violence and the buffer idea buttresses this long-standing view. Sharon has not brought the Israeli public security. With grim determination, he has destroyed the peace process and the Oslo agreements. And now he doggedly continues to demolish and prevent any hope of a road to peaceful coexistence. Israelis do not wonder any longer how to get along with Palestinians but how to avoid the need for it. Sharon has ensured that Israelis are rapidly absorbing the lesson that no place in Israel can be considered safe. 
	
	
 A wall and miles of fences is not the best of solutions. Does anybody believe that the intifada can end as long as Israel persists in the occupation of the territories and Palestinians are willing to die in large numbers to deny Israel that privilege? 
	
	
	


	
BEIJING, March 6 (AFP) -- China's foreign minister on Wednesday pledged to expand "constructive and cooperative" relations with the United States, in a notably conciliatory performance at his annual get-together with the media. 
	
	
 "We are ready to work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation in order to further push forward the constructive and cooperative ties," Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan told journalists. 
	
	
 In a press conference on the sidelines of the current full session of parliament -- his annual opportunity to present China's foreign policy objectives to the outside world -- Tang largely steered clear of subjects over which Beijing and Washington disagree. 
	
	
 Even when the perennially divisive issue of Taiwan was raised by reporters, he offered only mild and routine criticism of US policy towards the island. 
	
	
 China had always "firmly opposed" the US Taiwan Affairs Act, which mandates by law the US defense of Taiwan and forms the basis for US arms sales to the island, he said. 
	
	
 Tang called on Washington to uphold the so-called "one China policy" -- the centrepiece of Beijing's dealings with Taiwan which categorises the island is an inalienable part of mainland territory -- but failed to specifically condemn Washington's arms sales to Taipei. 
	
	
 However he stressed that Taiwan remained the crucial issue between the two. 
	
	
 "I wish to emphasize that the Taiwan question remains the most sensitive and most important issue at the core of the Sino-US relationship," he said. 
	
	
 Sino-US ties have greatly improved since Beijing backed the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States. 
	
	
 The tone of Tang's press conference was markedly different to that of last year's equivalent event, during which he roundly criticised United States arms sales to Taiwan. 
	
	
 Sino-US relations took a more serious dip a month afterwards during a crisis over the collision between a US surveillance plane and a Chinese fighter jet over the South China Sea. 
	
	
 Tang conceded there had been "twists and turns" following US President George W. Bush's accession to the US presidency in early last year, but said the relationship had improved with Bush's visits to China in October and last month. 
	
	
 "President Jiang and President Bush held an important meeting in Shanghai in October where they agreed that both countries would work together to build a constructive and cooperative relationship. 
	
	
 "This is a very important consensus," Tang said. 
	
	
 When asked whether the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency, Tang disagreed, saying cooperation "was long-term". 
	
	
 China will seek to improve the relationship still further during visits by President Jiang Zemin and Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington later this year. 
	
	
 Tang further announced that Liu Jieyi, the director general of the Chinese Foreign Ministry section in charge of arms control, was in Washington for talks on weapons proliferation and issues concerning the global security. 
	
	
 US accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have long been countered by Beijing with loud opposition to US weapon sales to Taiwan. 
	
	
 Overall, despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment, Tang said. 
	
	
	


	
That Angela Merkel, the chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Union, wanted the job had long been an open secret, although no one but she knew how far she was prepared to go. But it was the uncertainty with which her rival, Bavarian Premier Edmund Stoiber of the Christian Social Union, the CDU's Bavarian sister party, also shrouded himself that made the question of who would lead the Union parties into the 22 September elections as chancellor candidate against incumbent Gerhard Schroeder, so exciting. Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary. 
	
	
 Mr. Stoiber carefully tread the path to the candidacy, spurred on by many and reined in by others. But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life. Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman. That has always been the basic premise for a CSU chairman to accept the candidacy on behalf of the bigger sister party. It does not, of course, guarantee success at the polls -- or even solidarity in the campaign. 
	
	
 Certainly, Mr. Stoiber has done everything in his power to spare himself the fate of his mentor, Franz Josef Strauss. Rather than force himself on the CDU, he waited to be called. Having marginalized their own leader, the CDU grandees cannot afford to leave the chancellor candidate in the lurch as well. The most cogent argument in Mr. Stoiber's favor is that he will be running as a hopeful and not as the ticket of last resort. The CDU chose him because it believes in victory. The government is floundering, more seriously than anyone would have thought six months ago. The Union parties could not have wished for a better situation from which to launch their campaign. If anyone in their ranks can turn this to their advantage, it is Mr. Stoiber. 
	
	
 Nonetheless, he will be made to realize that he cannot command the CDU, that his power base lies in Munich and not in Berlin, and that the invitation of kingmakers to accept the crown comes at a cost. Nor will Mr. Stoiber have any illusions of what it means to lead an election campaign, although he can be confident in the knowledge that what is at stake is not Edmund Stoiber, nor the Union, but Germany as a whole.	


	
AMMAN -- The unemployment rate among the country's 48,000 engineers has dropped by 1.5 per cent since last year, a senior official at the Jordan Engineers Association (JEA) said on Thursday. 
	
	
 The rate last year was around 8.5 per cent, but in the first two months of 2002 it dropped to 7 per cent, said JEA President Azzam Hneidi. The total of unemployed engineers currently stands at 3,360, he said. 
	
	
 The association last year provided 867 unemployed engineers with job opportunities in several public and private institutions, thereby contributing to the decline, according to Hneidi. 
	
	
 The association will continue contacting the government and private institutions to supply them with engineers, he added. 
	
	
 Both the JEA and the Ministry of Housing and Public Works last year trained 759 new engineering graduates over the course of one year to prepare them for job opportunities, he said. 
	
	
 One of the JEA's obligations stipulated in its bylaws is to provide training for its members. This training takes the form of a full-time internship lasting from six months to one year, during which graduates are placed in professional settings to gain firsthand experience in the workplace. 
	
	
 "The aim is to give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university," said Hneidi. 
	
	
 Engineers specialised in the electricity field, for example, are hired to work in an electric company for eight hours per day. 
	
	
 "The trainee is paid between JD120-150 per month, and the association defrays JD30-50 of that monthly salary," said the JEA official. 
	
	
 The association annually allocates JD100,000 for training graduates. This year it plans to increase the number of trainees to 1,000 graduates, which will require more funds. 
	
	
 "The association is willing to cover it," Hneidi said. 
	
	
 As the engineering sector has more graduates than job openings, the association's representative offices in the Gulf states look to bring engineers from Jordan to work in the Gulf, said Hneidi. 
	
	
 Unemployment prevails mainly among chemical, mechanical and civil engineering graduates, he said, adding that engineers specialised in electrical, computer and architectural engineering have no problem finding jobs. 
	
	
 The number of students in Jordanian public and private universities' engineering departments is around 6,000, excluding those in agricultural engineering. Around 2,000 new engineers enter the job market on an annual basis. 
	
	
 Currently, many engineering students in universities prefer to specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines because the demand for them is higher. 
	
	
	


	
Regular British troops will not be sent to fight the Taliban, Robin Cook signalled tonight. 
	
	
 His remarks came as the militia began talks on surrendering its spiritual home of Kandahar after Northern Alliance troops finally entered Kunduz. 
	
	
 SAS [Special Air Service] soldiers and their American counterparts are fighting alongside the Alliance as they have swept across large swathes Afghanistan. 
	
	
 But Commons Leader Mr Cook said: "If you look back over the past month there has been no situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war and I don't myself imagine that's going to change." 
	
	
 British troops remained on 48 hour stand-by but the situation was "better than anybody could have hoped for", according to Mr Cook. 
	
	
 "We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan. This is not a reverse, it's actually an advance," he added. 
	
	
 News of the Kandahar negotiations came after the Taliban control crumbled in their final northern stronghold of Kunduz following mass surrender. 
	
	
 The city's top Taliban commander was among thousands of Afghan and foreign troops who gave themselves up after days of talks interspersed with fighting. 
	
	
 However, night fell before the Alliance could secure the city, increasing the danger of militants fighting back. 
	
	
 Hours after the vanguard entered from the west, a tank column halted its advance from the east, fearing hostile fire. 
	
	
 The surrender took days to hammer out, primarily because hard core Taliban and foreign troops from Usama Bin Ladin's al-Qa'ida terror network did not want to give up. 
	
	
 The fall of Kunduz leaves Kandahar as the Taliban's last major stronghold following the rapid collapse of their regime across the majority of the country. 
	
	
 Hundreds of foreign fighters captured in the siege of the northern city were killed in a prison riot at a fortress outside Mazar-e-Sharif, the Northern Alliance said. 
	
	
 But that did not stop Taliban commanders discussing the surrender of Kandahar, following calls from 70 Afghan tribal leaders for them to avert bloodshed. 
	
	
 "There are some talks and negotiations going on there (in Kandahar) with the Taliban to surrender themselves," Gen Mohammed Zaer Azimi said in Herat. 
	
	
 Ruud Lubbers, the United Nations Commissioner for Refugees, said Afghanistan was not yet secure for aid agencies to operate in and "not enough" food had been taken into the country. 
	
	
 "It is not at all a secure environment," he told the programme. 
	
	
 "So although our international staff went back to Kabul and hope to go back to the other places ... one cannot say it is safe in the country and secure enough. 
	
	
 "So there is quite a job to be done in creating a secure environment for humanitarian assistance." 
	
	
 His concerns echoed those voiced by leading charity Oxfam, which said instability across the country was hampering aid efforts. 
	
	
 But the Prime Minister's official spokesman today said Tony Blair was pleased with the progress that had been made on the military, diplomatic and humanitarian fronts. 
	
	
 "The situation obviously remains fluid from hour to hour but it seems to be going in the right direction," the spokesman said. 
	
	
 The campaign so far showed Alliance military success was the best way of getting food in, he said. 
	
	
 He again stressed that Britain would need to see evidence before it became involved in military action in other countries. 
	
	
 "In terms of the war on terrorism we have always said this is a multi-faceted campaign but equally we have also said any future military action would have to be based on evidence," he said. 
	
	
 "This campaign is not over. We are still in the middle of fighting the war in Afghanistan." 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Taipei, Feb. 18 (CNA) -- Minister of Foreign Affairs Eugene Chien said Monday he does not expect any surprise developments to come from U.S. President George W. Bush's visit to mainland China later this week. 
	
	
 "The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference. 
	
	
 Bush arrived in Japan Sunday at the start of a three-nation Asia tour that will also take him to South Korea and mainland China. 
	
	
 Noting that this is Bush's first visit to the Asia-Pacific area following his attendance at the annual informal leadership meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum last October, Chien said the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) is keeping close tabs on the current trip. 
	
	
 According to Chien, the government has set up a special task force to facilitate communications with the United States and analyze relevant developments. "The task force is working around the clock to monitor Bush's visit to Japan, south Korea and mainland China," he added. 
	
	
 The minister further said that since the communication channels between Taiwan and the United States have been operating smoothly, MOFA can fully grasp any possible developments. "We hope that people will keep calm. They need not be nervous," he said. 
	
	
 Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully. 
	
	
 Chien said the Republic of China government hopes that the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations. 
	
	
 In his view, Chien went on, the main purpose of Bush's current Asia visit is to promote world peace and security. "Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
	
	
 He said Bush is expected to discuss bilateral security cooperation, Japan's economic reforms and financial aid to Afghanistan in his talks with Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi. 
	
	
 During his trip to Seoul, Chien said, Bush is expected to exchange views with South Korean leaders on arms procurement and policies toward North Korea. 
	
	
 "As for the topics to be touched upon in Bush's talks with Beijing leaders, the agenda will include mainland China's agricultural market opening, religious freedom and human rights condition, missile shield and Taiwan Strait issues," Chien noted.	


	
BSE case reported in southwestern France 
	
	
 Text of report by French news agency AFP 
	
	
 Auch, 2 March (AFP): A fourth case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) was recently confirmed in the Gers department [of southwestern France], the Gers prefecture announced on Saturday [2 March]. The animal concerned was a milk cow and the farm has not been named. In accordance with the new regulations which came into force last week, all the animals in the herd will be slaughtered except for those born after 1 January 2002, the prefecture said. The first two BSE cases in Gers were detected last August, and a third was confirmed at the end of January in a 6-year-old milk cow. 
	
	
	


	
On Sunday [25 November], the Belgian Army will begin relieving its troops that are stationed in Kosovo within the scope of the NATO-led peace force (KFOR [Kosovo Force]). The replacement force will also include a Luxembourg contingent -- as has been the case since 1999 -- as well as a Romanian company including 84 troops. The army announced this on Friday [23 November]. The relief operation, which will involve some 900 troops, will begin on Saturday and last until 12 December, the Armed Forces' press service pointed out. 
	
	
	


	
NIZHNY NOVGOROD. March 22 (Interfax-AVN) -A habitual criminal who escaped from a convoy and started a shootout in the Perm region overnight to Friday has surrendered to the police, a spokesman for the main police department in the Volga federal district told Interfax-Military News Agency on Friday. Sergei Serdyuk, 32, was convicted several times on charges of theft, assault amd car hijacking. He was detained in March 2002 once again. While being transported to the police department of the Komi- Perm autonomous region on Thursday, Serdyuk escaped from a convoy of the Kochevo police department. The incident happened on the Perm-Kudymkar motorway 6km from the Karagai village of the Perm region at about midnight. Materials contained in the criminal case brought against Serdyuk say that the man disarmed the convoy, got hold of four PM pistols, wounded the head of the criminal investigation subdepartment of the Kochevo police department, who commanded the convoy, captured the driver of the police vehicle and left in the direction of Perm. The car was stopped near the Krasnokamsk village, the shootout started, and Serdyuk escaped in a forest. No casualties were registered among policemen. Two PM pistols were found at the site. Serdyuk surrendered to the police at 8:20 a.m. Moscow time (0520 GMT) on Friday. Arms were confiscated from him, the spokesman said. @ 2002 Interfax-Military News Agency, All rights reserved. News and other data on this web site are provided for information purposes only, and are not intended for republication or redistribution. Republication or redistribution of Interfax content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Interfax-Military News Agency. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Taipei, Feb. 21 (CNA) -- Relations between Taiwan and the United States have increasingly become "harmonious and close" since U. S. President George W. Bush took office and Bush's current mainland visit is unlikely to affect the two-way ties, a presidential aide said Thursday. 
	
	
 Secretary-General of the Presidential Office Chen Shih-meng said the U. S. has repeatedly assured Taiwan that Bush will stick to his commitments to help protect Taiwan and he will not do or say anything that could damage Taiwan's interests while visiting mainland China. 
	
	
 According to Chen, the main purpose of Bush's mainland trip is to thank Beijing for its cooperation in the U.S.-led anti-terrorist war following last year's Sept. 11 terror attacks on Washington and New York. 
	
	
 Meanwhile, Chang Shiao-yue, spokeswoman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, reiterated that the United States had briefed Taiwan on Bush's mainland visit before his departure and made it clear that the trip would not hurt Taiwan's interests. She added the ministry has set up a task force to monitor developments and deal with all contingencies.	


	
BEIJING, Feb 21 (AFP) - US President George W. Bush and Chinese President Jiang Zemin on Thursday carefully played down their countries' often glaring differences over Taiwan during the US leader's visit to Beijing. 
	
	
 Both scrupulously avoided combative talk on the issue, which has been a consistent source of tension between the countries for decades. 
	
	
 Bush, who arrived in China Thursday morning, said the United States hoped for a "peaceful settlement" to tensions between China and Taiwan and stressed Washington's policy on the island had not altered. 
	
	
 "The position of my government has not changed over the years," Bush reassured his hosts. 
	
	
 "We believe in the peaceful settlement of this issue." 
	
	
 Bush reiterated his support for the Taiwan Relations Act, under which the United States is committed to providing the island with the means to defend itself. 
	
	
 But he also had a thinly veiled message for leaders in Taipei, saying "we will urge there be no provocation". 
	
	
 Bush's comments appeared designed to reassure Beijing that Washington has not shifted from its long-standing policy of avoiding making any explicit commitment to come to Taiwan's defence should China invade. 
	
	
 The tone contrasted sharply with the mood last year when Bush signed off on the biggest US arms sales to Taiwan in a decade. The sales angered Beijing and fuelled concern that Washington's tougher stance might encourage Taiwan to declare formal independence. 
	
	
 Bush's comments also pleased Taiwan's government, which pronounced itself satisfied and thanked Bush for his backing. 
	
	
 "The press conference showed the result of the discussions entirely match our forecast," said Taiwanese Foreign Minister Eugene Chien. 
	
	
 He voiced his gratitude to Bush for "having honored his commitment" made to Taipei before the Asian trip, which also took Bush to Japan and South Korea. 
	
	
 Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman had said ahead of Bush's departure for Asia that Washington had assured Taipei its interests would not be harmed. 
	
	
 However some officials voiced concern that China could secure concessions on Taiwan in return for supporting Bush on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear arms proliferation. 
	
	
 In his comments at the press conference, Jiang also avoided areas of contention over Taiwan, which split from the mainland in 1949 after the communist victory in China's civil war. 
	
	
 "To properly handle the Taiwan question is vital to the stability and growth of China-US relations," Jiang said. 
	
	
 "In my meeting with President Bush, I have elaborated on the Chinese government's basic position of peaceful reunification and 'one country two systems' for the solution of the Taiwan question." 
	
	
 "One country two systems" is Beijing's proposal to reunify with Taiwan while allowing the island some autonomy in a similar arrangement to that which saw Hong Kong return to Chinese rule in 1997. 
	
	
 Taiwan on Thursday also called on China to reopen rapprochement talks. 
	
	
 Premier Yu Shyi-kun asked Chinese leaders to set aside differences with the island and engage in talks in the aftermath of both their entries to the World Trade Organisation (WTO). 
	
	
 Beijing has said it will not reopen talks with Taipei unless the Taiwanese government embraces its definition of "one China", under which Taiwan is considered part of its territory. 
	
	
 This is rejected by Taiwan's pro-independence President Chen Shui-bian. Dialogue across the Taiwan Straits has been frozen since he took office in May 1999. 
	
	
	


	
BETHANY - The number of illegal immigrants in Swaziland seems to be increasing. Last month members of the Umbutfo Swaziland Defence Force [USDF] found 594 illegal aliens in the country. 
	
	
 The USDF found 43 Somalians inside two kombis in Maphiveni and 23 others were found without travel documents at Matsamo border and were handed over to the Horo police. At least 507 illegal Mozambicans have been found, as well as eight South Africans, two Tanzanians, and one Burundian. 
	
	
 According to the army spokesman, Corporal Nhlanhla Dlamini, the key areas where most of the immigrants were found was Lomahasha, Mhlumeni and Sitsatsaweni. "We have discovered that there is a certain family around Lomahasha, which is suspected of assisting illegal immigrants with shelter and transport. The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said. 
	
	
 Last month, 53 cattle were also stolen around the country, of which 17 were spotted inside Mozambique driven by three men armed with rifles thought to be AK47s. The Mozambican soldiers have promised to act quickly. 
	
	
 The USDF also found four stolen cars in different places in the country. These include a Nissan Skyline in Mafutseni, a Mercedes Benz, A Toyota and an Isuzu 2.5 diesel at Nkalashane. 
	
	
	


	
TAIPEI, Feb 21 (AFP) - Taiwan Foreign Minister Eugene Chien on Thursday hailed US President George W. Bush for not trading away the island's interests to Beijing. 
	
	
 Chien said the closed-door meeting between Bush and his Chinese counterpart Jiang Zemin suggested there remained differences to be tackled. 
	
	
 As to the Taiwan issue, Chien said: "The press conference showed the result of the discussions entirely match our forecast..." 
	
	
 Chien voiced his gratitude to Bush for "having honored his commitment" he pledged to Taipei before his Asian trip, which also took him to Japan and South Korea. 
	
	
 Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman had said ahead of Bush's departure for Asia that Washington had assured Taipei its interests would not be harmed. 
	
	
 Taiwan's foreign ministry has set up an ad hoc group to monitor the trip around-the-clock and report to President Chen Shui-bian. Taipei's de facto embassy in Washington has been given a similar task. 
	
	
 Chien said he also hoped "Washington will continue to enhance its ties with Taipei while seeking to mend fences with Beijing." 
	
	
 Bush, who arrived in China Thursday morning, said the United States hoped for a "peaceful settlement" to tensions between China and Taiwan and stressed Washington's policy on the island had not altered. 
	
	
 "The position of my government has not changed over the years," Bush said. 
	
	
 "We believe in the peaceful settlement of this issue." 
	
	
 Bush reiterated his support for the Taiwan Relations Act, under which the United States is committed to providing the island with the means to defend itself. 
	
	
 Beijing has repeatedly threatened to take Taiwan by force should the island declare formal independence. 
	
	
 In a speech to the Japanese Diet (parliament) on Tuesday, Bush said the US would continue to support its allies in the Asia Pacific region. 
	
	
 "We will continue to show American power and purpose in support of the Philippines ... Australia ... and Thailand ... America will remember our commitments to the people on Taiwan," he said, without elaborating. 
	
	
 
	
	
	


	
US President Bush, after visiting Japan and South Korea, will follow with a visit to China. Whether Bush will, like Clinton, damage Taiwan's interests is receiving the deep concern of all quarters. The protection of Taiwan's interests under the US-Japan alliance structure is fairly strong. Before President Bush visits China, Japanese naval strategy expert Kawamura Sumihiko and missile expert Sato Mamoru were exclusively interviewed by a reporter of this newspaper. They reiterated the importance of Taiwan's strategic position and at the same time put forward their views with regard to the situation in the Taiwan Strait. 
	
	
 Kawamura: Japan and Taiwan are both exporting nations. Stable ocean traffic is an absolute necessity. Last year, approximately 5.1 billion tons of goods passed through the world's oceans, about one third of which passed through the sea areas of southern China. Half of this one third was transported to Japan through the sea areas near Taiwan. The traffic on Taiwan's seas is extremely important to Japan. If Taiwan becomes a part of China, all of Taiwan's sea areas will be threatened. China is currently in the process of actively expanding as a maritime nation. Its purpose is to ensure resources and the lives of a population of 1.5 billion people. However, China is not a nation that is able to abide by international rules, and for this reason, there will inevitably be conflicts on the ocean. Under these circumstances, Taiwan and Japan both must recognize clearly the important role of the navy. 
	
	
 Question: What is your appraisal of Taiwan's navy? 
	
	
 Kawamura: Frankly speaking, Taiwan's navy is worrisome. Anti-submarine combat strength is extremely low, and in particular there are many old style naval aircraft that, compared to Japan, are possibly 30 to 40 years behind. Torpedo strength is also insufficient. The Navy's problems are very large. For example, there is only one submarine attached to each naval base. It can only be said that this is nothing more than an embellishment and fundamentally cannot accomplish anything. Taiwan should make an all out effort to augment naval combat strength. In past Taiwan-US arms sale negotiations, the PC-3 early warning aircraft and the MH53 helicopter that Taiwan has made requests to purchase are entirely suitable to Taiwan's needs. The PC-3's intelligence exchange system is extremely important and is not inferior to the Aegis destroyer. 
	
	
 Question: Will the United States sell Aegis destroyers to Taiwan? 
	
	
 Kawamura: One of the reasons that the United States has all along not provided Aegis destroyers to Taiwan is that in the past the United States considered Taiwan's armed forces to be the armed forces of the Nationalist Party, not the armed forces of the nation. Nationalization of the armed forces after Lee Teng-hui (Li Teng-hui) and the loyal attitude of the armed forces after Chen Shui-bian (Ch'en Shui-pien) came into office have already gradually allowed the United States to feel at ease. Although Japan and the United States haven't recognized it, in reality, the United States, Japan and Taiwan currently are already situated in a kind of virtual alliance. I reckon that at the last stage, the United States will provide the Aegis destroyer to Taiwan. It is not possible that the Republican Party will get along with China, Taiwan can again wait for a little while. 
	
	
 Question: Where is China's true threat to Taiwan 
	
	
 Sato: China's threat to Taiwan is the use of the three methods of missiles, amphibious landing, and submarine blockades. The most likely method is to use missiles to threaten Taiwan psychologically. 
	
	
 Question: How should Taiwan respond to China's missile threat? 
	
	
 Sato: I gave a speech on this issue in Taiwan. Taiwan has some people who very obviously purposely play up China's use of force to scare Taiwan. In 1996, the Chinese People's Liberation Army indeed fired four missiles near Taiwan, but this was a kind of propaganda war. Before the United States attacked Afghanistan, it first explained the reasons to every nation of the world, and China using missiles to attack Taiwan is certainly not simple. If China only uses common warheads, at most, it would only make a few holes in Taiwan. If warheads with biological weapons are used, China has no means to justify this to international public opinion. During the Second World War, Germany fired 7,000 V1 and V2 missiles at England and England did not surrender. Recently, old Yugoslavia fired 3,000 missiles at Kosovo and Kosovo also did not surrender. This is an issue of will. 
	
	
 Question: What is the significance for Taiwan of the United States and Japan jointly researching TMD theater missile defense system technology? 
	
	
 Sato: After the 9-11 incident, the United States will be even keener on developing TMD. Taiwan is also very important to the United States, especially Taiwan's strategic position. The possibility of the TMD anti-missile system covering Taiwan in the future is very great. Currently, Taiwan's Patriot missiles are effective against guided missiles. I reckon that the probability of war occurring between China and Taiwan is smaller than small. Not using peaceful methods to resolve the Taiwan issue won't do, and I reckon that the US-Japan summit talks will discuss the issue of the two shores. 
	
	
 However, Taiwan announcing independence to the outside world is a variable. Taiwan announcing independence is not itself a problem, but because Taiwan announcing independence would bring unrest and a domino effect would occur with regard to Tibet and Xinjiang, this is China's greatest fear. There would be no difference between Taiwan announcing independence to the outside world and the current situation. Taiwan has no need to announce independence, and there won't be any problem if only the name "Taiwan" is used. 
	
	
 
	
	
 Attachments: TYSP 19 feb 02-1.pdf	


	
ANKARA, Jan 15 (A.A) - Uzbek general Rashid Dostum will pay a visit to Turkey. 
	
	
 Afghanistan`s Embassy in Ankara said Dostum, the Defense Minister of temporary government set up in Afghanistan, will come to Ankara to visit his family. 
	
	
 Dostum is expected to leave for Turkey following the inauguration ceremony of Uzbek Consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif. 
	
	
 Dostum is expected to reach Ankara in the coming days. 
	
	
 It is not definite whether or not Uzbek general will have an official program in Ankara. 
	
	
	


	
Text of report in English by Russian news agency Interfax 
	
	
 Moscow, 9 November: Russia's Defence Ministry has denied Taleban assertions that Russian officers are serving in the Northern Alliance. "Formations of the anti-Taleban coalition do not include officers of the Russian armed forces," a high-ranking military official told Interfax on Friday. "Russia has provided only military-technical assistance to the Northern Alliance and continues to do so. Russian officers were not dispatched to Afghanistan either as unit leaders or as instructors," the official added. 
	
	
	


	

	
	
 One in four children in the KwaZulu-Natal capital of Pietermaritzburg has been orphaned by Aids, and the number is set to rocket in the next 10 years. 
	
	
 A study by Dr Neil McKerrow, chief paediatrician at Pietermaritzburg's Metropolitan Hospitals Complex, shows that 50 000 Aids orphans live in the city. The number rises to 100 000 if surrounding areas in the Midlands are included. 
	
	
 McKerrow estimates that the number of orphans in the Midlands will top 250 000 by 2010. 
	
	
 His figures refer to children under 16 who have lost their mothers, in line with a World Health Organisation definition. According to Statistics SA, the city has 193 000 children in that age group out of a total population of 573 000. 
	
	
 Although there are care centres and orphanages in Pietermaritzburg, McKerrow's study found that extended families and the community were willing to take in these children. 
	
	
 Six years ago McKerrow and a colleague at the Edendale Hospital, Annelise Verbeek, pioneered a study entitled Models of Care for Children in Distress, a term they coined for abandoned, displaced and orphaned children in the region. 
	
	
 They found that 6% of children in Pietermaritzburg were Aids orphans. Six years later, the number has risen to 25%. 
	
	
 At an informal meeting three weeks ago, the city council was told that, according to estimates from teachers, there were now as many as 100 000 Aids orphans in the city, but city health officials say these numbers appear to be too high. 
	
	
 McKerrow's estimates are based on household counts coupled with mathematical models used by the WHO. 
	
	
 KwaZulu-Natal has the highest rate of HIV infection in SA, with 36% of the population infected. McKerrow estimates there are 4.6 million orphans countrywide. 
	
	
 Yvonne Spain, the co-ordinator of Children In Distress, a network of more than 50 organisations and people, said communities were absorbing the children, "but the fact of the matter is that, as multiple deaths occur, that safety net will fall apart". 
	
	
 The director of the provincial Aids Action Unit, Dr Sandile Buthelezi, admitted the city faced "quite a problem" and suggested this week the figures might even be higher than McKerrow's. 
	
	
 He said: "The number of orphans is not a static thing. . . Every day an orphan is being created and I know the problem is enormous in the province." 
	
	
 Buthelezi said the provincial health department was working closely with the welfare community and the private sector to secure funding for bodies working with Aids orphans.	


	
JOHANNESBURG Feb 12 Sapa ALLEGED ISRAELI MAFIA MEMBER TO STAND TRIAL IN AUGUST 
	
	
 Alleged Israeli mafia member Lior Saad will stand trial in August for the murder of the estranged husband of a close friend of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. 
	
	
 The Johannesburg Magistrate's Court ruled on Tuesday Saad would stand trial from August 12 to 30 for the murder of diamond merchant Shai Avissar, who disappeared in 1999. 
	
	
 Avissar's body was found in a shallow grave on a smallholding near Pretoria on October 17, 1999. 
	
	
 The diamond merchant was married to Hazel Crane, a close friend of Madikizela-Mandela. 
	
	
 Saad will remain in custody until the trial. 
	
	
 Source : Sapa /nn/wj Date : 12 Feb 2002 14:15	


	
The federal and local authorities are currently preparing the ratification of the Kyoto international protocol on limiting the emission of greenhouse gases. Within the framework of that protocol, Belgium must reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 7.5 percent, compared to 1990, in the 2008-2012 period. Following the formal ratification of the Kyoto protocol by all the parliaments of the concerned countries, that protocol will become equivalent to a Belgian law. This implies -- whether or not one agrees with it -- that the Kyoto protocol will become binding for all of this country's inhabitants and institutions. 
	
	
 We readily accept that there are good intentions on the part of both the government and this country's various sectors to comply with the Kyoto standards. However, no broad social debate has yet been conducted on the crucial question: How much should each sector or target group contribute to achieving the Belgian Kyoto standard? Because this debate has failed to take place, it is understandable that all sectors (ranging from processing and manufacturing industrial sector, the electricity sector, the tertiary sector, and the transport sector to the residential sector) are currently doing their utmost to make their own future efforts as small (yet acceptable) as possible. 
	
	
 That is strikingly illustrated by Belgian large-scale industry, which has made great efforts over the past 10 years, over which energy intensity (energy use per unit of final product) has improved considerably. But a very considerable increase in production is expected in Belgium over the next 10 years, so that (even with very efficient processes) overall carbon dioxide emissions will certainly rise. Large-scale industry wishes to counter the expected rise with so-called benchmark covenants. 
	
	
 In a nutshell, benchmarking means that companies compare their energy efficiency with that of similar plants abroad. In these covenants, the companies pledge to rank among the world leaders in energy efficiency by 2012. In return for their commitment, they are exempted from additional (Flemish) emission restrictions, taxes on emissions, or negotiable emission rights. 
	
	
 Belgian industry is advocating benchmark covenants because it is afraid that an absolute limit would weaken considerably its competitive position with respect to similar companies in regions where the Kyoto protocol is not ratified. According to industry, relocation, with the resulting job losses, would be the only solution. However, this disregards the fact that arguments other than purely financial ones also play a part in the location decisions of companies in our region (favorable location near seaports, availability of know-how, well-educated personnel, stable political climate...). 
	
	
 Those covenants contain insufficient guarantees in themselves to achieve the Belgian/Flemish reduction targets in an economically efficient manner. 
	
	
 To begin with, the principle of benchmarking itself raises questions. If it were to emerge from the comparison with domestic and foreign companies that certain companies do not rank among the world leaders in energy efficiency, they would have to present a plan to achieve the highest energy efficiency on time (by 2012). But benchmarking is not sufficient from the viewpoint of economic efficiency (realizing the Kyoto restrictions on emissions at the lowest possible costs for the whole of society). 
	
	
 A cost-efficient division of efforts implies that each sector must limit its emissions to the point at which the additional costs for one extra ton of reduction are the same in all sectors. As a result, the costs of additional restrictions on emissions in industry must be compared with those of other sectors, such as the transport sector, households, the service sector, and so forth. Benchmarking guarantees only that companies belong to the top of their class, but says nothing about that class's performance as compared with the whole universe. 
	
	
 Second, benchmark covenants do not guarantee that the external climate costs of energy use (the increased greenhouse effect caused by the burning of fossil fuels) are correctly taken into account in the final products of the sectors concerned. However, taking into account these external climate costs is essential, because the users of energy-intensive goods are confronted in that way with the consequences of their choice of product. In that way, less energy-intensive products enjoy a relative advantage. 
	
	
 Third, questions can be asked about the emission restrictions that would be achieved by the covenants. Companies are urged in the proposed covenants to adopt measures which have an economic cost recovery period of less than five years or have an internal rate of return greater than that of a straight-lined obligation. But it is highly unclear whether these measures will lead to many extra reductions of emissions in comparison with the business as usual scenario without additional policy efforts. 
	
	
 Fourth is the contrast between the benchmark covenants' relative emissions standards and the Belgian Government's absolute restrictions on emissions within the framework of the Kyoto protocol. Since industry does not wish to let itself be pinned down on an absolute emissions ceiling, while the government feels itself committed to an absolute ceiling, industry is foisting the necessary efforts onto other sectors in society through the benchmark covenants. If industrial greenhouse gas emissions increase considerably over the next 10 years, that will have to be offset by a commensurate reduction of emissions in the transport sector, services, households, and so forth. 
	
	
 Thus the benchmark covenants could have very significant consequences for other sectors and target groups in our society, whereas the latter are not involved in the deliberations on those covenants. Hence a broad social debate on who should contribute how much to realizing the Kyoto standards is urgently necessary. 
	
	
 Despite these shortcomings, we believe that a role is reserved for the instrument of benchmark covenants. Thus the benchmark covenants could be reconciled with the European Commission's recent proposals for launching a unified market for European carbon dioxide emissions by 2005. This European proposal assumes absolute restrictions on emissions (companies obtain rights to emit a certain number of tons of carbon dioxide) and is hence irreconcilable at first sight with the Flemish benchmark covenants. However, the benchmark covenants could be opportune here for settling the initial allocation of emission rights. Companies could be allocated rights on the basis of an energy efficiency standard, on the condition that they are prepared to accept an absolute emissions ceiling. However, if they wish to emit more (because, for instance, their output is increasing considerably), they can do so provided that they purchase the necessary emission rights from companies which have a surplus of rights. 
	
	
 The great advantage of negotiable emission rights in that the system can lead to a cost-efficient division of effort among all sectors and target groups. By using the benchmark covenants to allocate emission rights initially, the good points of covenants are retained and their drawbacks are eliminated. 
	
	
 In any case, it is high time that a social debate be organized on the division of effort to achieve the Kyoto aims. Only a division that takes account of every sector's possibilities and is borne by the various target groups guarantees that Belgium will achieve its Kyoto aims without draconian measures having to be adopted at the eleventh hour. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Tokyo, Jan. 17 Kyodo -- Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, who just completed a whirlwind tour of five Southeast Asian nations, said Thursday he longed for more leisurely trips -- but added that may have to wait until he leaves his post. 
	
	
 "I would like to visit various countries at a more leisurely pace -- meet with the people of the land and travel not only to the capital but also to rural cities for sightseeing," the premier told a gathering in Tokyo. 
	
	
 "But when I think of my duties as prime minister, I can't visit one country and not go to the other, or stay in one country for three days and stay in the other for only a day. If I am to visit several countries in a limited time, it is always one or two days at best," he said. 
	
	
 "Of course, if I step down as prime minister, I can visit one country for a week each," he said. 
	
	
 But the premier also said that although short, he thinks his visits to the countries are still meaningful. 
	
	
 "There is a saying, seeing is believing. Even if it's only for a day or two, it is significant to visit a country and exchange views with the people of the country in person," he said. 
	
	
 Koizumi made a weeklong tour of the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore earlier in the month. He stayed for less than a day in most countries.	


	
Beijing, March 21 (XINHUA) -- China urged the United States on Thursday to abide by the "one China policy", warning that any act to trample upon the Sino-U.S. Joint Communiques could result in a "very unfavorable" impact on relations between the two countries. 
	
	
 The question of Taiwan, which relates to China's sovereignty and territorial integrity, is an essential and most important issue and is at the heart of Sino-U.S. relations, said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue. 
	
	
 China hopes the United States will not do anything against the spirit of the three Sino-U.S. Joint Communiques, she said. 
	
	
 Zhang made the remarks at a news briefing in response to a question about the Taiwan official Tang Yiau-min's recent visit to the United States. 
	
	
 Zhang replied that Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing has put forward China's stand on the matter while making strong representations to the U.S. government with the hope that the United States treats the matter seriousness it deserves. 
	
	
 She said during the U.S. President Bush's working visit to China last month, state leaders of both countries agreed that Chinese President Jiang Zemin and Vice President Hu Jintao would visit the United States this year. 
	
	
 However, within one month of Bush's visit, the U.S. has already done several things which are against the spirit of the three Sino-U.S. Joint Communiques. 
	
	
 Zhu said the U.S. side should stop interfering in China's internal affairs by interfering in the Taiwan issue. 
	
	
	


	
KHARTOUM, Feb 13 (AFP) - Sudanese rebels have released a group of fishermen they had held for the last six months after charging that their boat belonged to the Sudanese government army, their employer said Wednesday. 
	
	
 Salmah Trading and Investment Company said its fishermen, who were captured last August while fishing in the Fangak area in south Sudan's Upper Nile region, were set free Tuesday by the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA). 
	
	
 "The release was due to tremendous efforts by the citizens who benefit from the company's services," the company said in a statement received by AFP, without elaborating further. The statement did not indicate the exact number of the freed fishermen but an official of the company said they were originally 11 in number. 
	
	
 The Sudanese government had always denied that the boat belonged to the army. The rebels released the boat shortly after the fishermen were captured. 
	
	
 The private trading company said in its statement that it would continue with its services "for the benefit of the people of southern Sudan." 
	
	
 Sudan's civil war has raged since 1983 when the SPLA took up arms in a bid to end domination of the mainly Christian and animist south by the Islamic government in the north.	


	
Mugabe must be confronted with constitution issue 
	
	
 Lovemore Madhuku 3/21/02 1:40:54 AM (GMT +2) 
	
	
 IT will be a monumental tragedy for Zimbabwe and the future of the democratisation process if we fail to draw proper and useful lessons from the debacle surrounding the just-concluded presidential election. I must warn at the outset that there are two groups of persons whose analyses must be handled with caution. The first group is the media. The second group is that of "winning" and "losing" politicians. 
	
	
 These two groups dominated the pre-election period with all sorts of analyses and predictions whose value is yet to be ascertained. 
	
	
 Yet I must declare my interests at the outset. From those very first days sometime in early 1997 when, alongside colleagues like Tendai Biti, Welshman Ncube, Brian Kagoro, Priscilla Misihairabwi, Everjoice Win and Tawanda Mutasa, I participated in formulating the concept of the National Constitutional Assembly (NCA), it has been clear to me that the sole purpose of the current Zimbabwean constitution is to preserve and protect the rule of ZANU PF. 
	
	
 My view then, and indeed those of my colleagues, was that a democratic environment in which free and fair elections are the norm, and in which citizens enjoy real freedoms, could only be created if a new, democratic and people-driven constitution were put in place. In terms of that view, it is almost impossible to change the government through an election conducted in terms of the current constitution. 
	
	
 This is the view I still hold so strongly that I must confess it may cloud my assessment of the just-concluded presidential elections. 
	
	
 There is little doubt that the presidential election was neither free nor fair. An election which fails to meet the standard of being "free and fair" produces an illegitimate outcome. 
	
	
 This much must be regarded as admitting of no doubt. However, this says nothing about the way forward. This election was not stolen on March 9 and 10 2002, nor is the outcome illegitimate merely on the allegations of rigging arising from the events of the polling days. 
	
	
 The lesson to be learnt from this poll is that until Zimbabwe has a genuinely democratic constitution enshrining universally recognised norms and institutions for the holding of an election, a free and fair ballot will remain a mirage. 
	
	
 Politicians who in the run-up to the election peddled theories about how the "will" of the people would prevail notwithstanding the labyrinth of constitutional provisions loaded against a free and fair election must now admit that they were wrong. Most of the problems faced in this election have their roots in the defective nature of our constitutional framework. I now proceed to illustrate this truth. 
	
	
 First, the voter registration process was not transparent and was conducted in such a way as to favour the ruling party. The main reason for this lack of transparency is that in terms of the current constitution and laws, voter registration is conducted by officials appointed by, and answerable to, the President. 
	
	
 In other countries, this process is handled by an Independent Electoral Commission which is an impartial body and whose independence is guaranteed by the constitution. In our case, the so-called "supplementary voters' roll" was nothing but a list of names of ZANU PF supporters compiled under dubious circumstances but it was given legal validity by President Robert Mugabe acting is terms of the current constitution and laws. 
	
	
 Secondly, the designation of polling stations, as is now well known, was specifically done in a way that favoured ZANU PF by granting ridiculously few polling stations in urban areas. This was done by officials appointed by, and answerable to, Mugabe. In other countries, this is done by an Independent Electoral Commission, which is constitutionally enjoined to act impartially. 
	
	
 Third, it is alleged that some key election officials such as presiding officers were Central Intelligence Organisation operatives. In other countries, there is no scope for such madness. An Independent Electoral Commission appoints professional election officials. 
	
	
 Fourth, there were the so-called "no-go areas" in Mashonaland Central, West, East and some parts of the Midlands. Parliament also passed the Public Order and Security Act which the police deliberately misinterpreted to suppress the opposition. 
	
	
 Our constitution does not specifically provide for political rights such as free and equal campaigning platforms for competing political parties. If such rights had been enshrined, it would have given the opposition the right to approach the courts for orders directing the police to facilitate free campaigning in the so-called no-go areas. 
	
	
 Fifth, equal access to the public media is not guaranteed by our constitution. This enabled the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation to abuse its position by broadcasting ZANU PF propaganda only. 
	
	
 Finally, and more significantly, the President enjoys enormous powers under the current constitution which he used to further his electoral chances. It was the President who directed that there be tripartite elections in Harare. And in doing this, he overrode court orders to the contrary. 
	
	
 The tripartite elections contributed to what ultimately became a "low" turnout in Harare. 
	
	
 After the Supreme Court nullified the General Laws Amendment Act, the President used his powers to reinstate most of its provisions through a statutory instrument. Thus, it was the President who banned postal voting by all Zimbabweans outside their constituencies except members of the army and the police. The latter are alleged to have voted for Mugabe. 
	
	
 The ban on monitoring of elections by civic society was also reinstated. There were other countless examples of the President's use of the powers he enjoys under the current constitution to mould the electoral process in his favour. 
	
	
 The conclusion to be reached from this whole picture is that under the current constitutional and legal framework for the holding of presidential elections, it is almost impossible to vote out an incumbent President. It was naive for the Movement for Democratic Change to believe that the people's anger against Mugabe was, in itself, sufficient to carry the day in an election, whatever the circumstances. 
	
	
 The issue is not about Mugabe. If Mugabe were to announce his retirement before the expiry of his six-year term and ZANU PF were to field any of his less illustrious colleagues as a presidential candidate, without a fundamental change to the rules, Zimbabweans will learn an even more bitter lesson: ZANU PF will "steal" that election again. 
	
	
 We do not need to wait for that scenario before we embrace the need to fight for a new constitution. We have learnt our lesson and it will be irresponsible to seek to dispute this clear fact. 
	
	
 This brings us to the way forward. Two points must be made. 
	
	
 First, there has been no spontaneous uprising against Mugabe notwithstanding the widespread disbelief that greeted his victory among many voters, particularly those in urban areas. ZANU PF had anticipated such an uprising, hence the massive intimidatory show of force that was evident in the deployment of security forces in every part of the country during and after the announcement of the election results. 
	
	
 Secondly, key African countries have accepted Mugabe's victory while almost the entire Western world has "rejected" the election results. These two points are crucial in any discussion of the way forward. 
	
	
 Various options have been discussed, but the better way forward is to confront the Mugabe regime with the constitutional question. Constitutional reform is at the heart of any new democratic discourse in Zimbabwe. 
	
	
 Mugabe must be forced to yield to a new process of constitutional reform leading to a new constitution. There must be mass action for a new constitution. 
	
	
 Mass action for a new constitution places Mugabe in a difficult situation. He cannot be heard to defend the current constitution, which has been roundly condemned by all. He has used the current constitution to stay in power. 
	
	
 Even the African observers who endorsed Mugabe's re-election have also criticised the constitutional framework governing elections in Zimbabwe. 
	
	
 More fundamentally, the struggle for a new constitution is a question of principle, not personalities. It is a legitimate struggle which Mugabe cannot dismiss as a Western imperialist ploy because its demands are clear and unambiguous: a more democratic system of government, a more democratic framework for conducting elections, an expanded Bill of Rights and so on. 
	
	
 Mugabe has no moral excuse for shooting people merely demanding a new constitution. 
	
	
 The masses required for such a struggle to succeed need not be substantial. This struggle does not need a spontaneous uprising. A core of determined and committed Zimbabweans is sufficient for this purpose. 
	
	
 It is critical that a new constitution be in place as soon as possible so that any future election is held in a transparent and credible manner. 
	
	
 A presidential election is not necessarily six years away. Under the current constitution, the President has no powers to designate a successor, should he decide to retire. A fresh election must be held within 90 days. 
	
	
 The same situation arises if the President dies while in office. Never again should Zimbabweans go into an election under the current constitution. 
	
	
 A criticism which has been levelled against this way forward is that mass action aimed at confronting Mugabe with a demand for a new constitution translates into recognising him when in fact his government is illegitimate. This is useless sophistry. 
	
	
 Mugabe is a political fact. In legal jargon, to those who do not recognise his presidency, he remains the de facto President. It is him who must be confronted with such a demand as constitutional reform. 
	
	
 The NCA last December completed a draft constitution which Mugabe, through Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa, refused to receive. That draft must be forced on Mugabe and the NCA hopes that Zimbabweans will join in this noble cause to put in place a secure framework for good governance in Zimbabwe. 
	
	
 - Lovemore Madhuku is task force chairperson of the National Constitutional Assembly and a lecturer in law at the University of Zimbabwe.	


	
The Argentine TV station Todo Noticias ["All News"] reported yesterday that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso on Saturday night telephoned Cordoba Province Governor Jose Manuel de la Sota, of the Justicialist Party (PJ) -- who once served as ambassador to Brazil -- to voice his concern over incidents in the country. 
	
	
 "Cardoso told De la Sota that the images of the protests at the Plaza de Mayo show a country on the verge of a civil war," one of the channel's journalists commented. 
	
	
 According to the reporter, the Brazilian president apparently advised De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002. But neither Itamaraty nor the Planalto Palace confirmed the president's phone call to the governor of Cordoba. 
	
	
 Legislators Request Action from the Brazilian Government 
	
	
 Concern has spread to Brazilian legislators. Violent attacks at the Argentine legislature sounded alarm bells in the Brazilian political arena, to the point that senators of the official and opposition parties defended more concrete support from the Brazilian Government for Argentina. Deputy Jose Genoino (Workers Party -- Sao Paulo) said that the wave of looting threatens Argentine democracy. He asked that Brazil promote meetings in the South American continent, or serve as intermediary in negotiations with international institutions. 
	
	
 "This is an unpredictable, anarchical situation. We don't know where it will go, against whom. It is dangerous! In addition to Argentina there are other countries in crisis, such as Colombia and Venezuela. We have a very risky scenario. Any step backward for democracy on the continent would be a disaster. Brazil cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this," Genoino affirmed. 
	
	
 PSDB [Brazilian Social Democracy Party] President Jose Anibal (Sao Paulo) said that Cardoso has already placed himself at the disposal of the Argentine Government to talk to international financial institutions. He noted, "Brazil should adopt an open posture with relation to Argentina, which is experiencing a tragedy." 
	
	
 For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country. 
	
	
 "The political warning must be heeded. Either one pays attention to the will of the people or what happened will happen." Maia commented. 
	
	
 Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy. I hope that this can alert the Brazilian Government to revise its relationship with the IMF." 
	
	
 Analysts: Lack of Alternative for Power 
	
	
 Political scientists agree: Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism. This is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country. USP [University of Sao Paulo] professor Emir Sader believes that Peronists will remain in power after the elections, slowly growing weaker, allowing room for the emergence of new leadership. 
	
	
 "The degree of pauperization will be brutal. Everything depends on how long it takes for Peronism to burn out and new leadership to emerge," Sader said. 
	
	
 For the political scientist, Argentina cannot wait for assistance from the American Government. Latin America is no longer important because the focus now is on global security and no longer on the international economic order. 
	
	
 Sader affirmed, "The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush is to permit decay. The concern now is security. All eyes are on Pakistan, China, and Russia." 
	
	
	


	
MOSCOW. Feb 21 (Interfax) - Russia's Interior Ministry is looking into a report about Russian entrepreneur Viktor Bout's involvement in arms supplies to the al-Qaeda terrorist organization. 
	
	
 "Deputy Interior Minister Nikolai Bobrovsky ordered a detailed probe and verification of this information," Interior Ministry spokesman Yuri Shuvalov told Interfax on Thursday.	


	
HONG KONG, March 26 (AFP) - China has disallowed a routine port call in Hong Kong for an American naval vessel, a spokeswoman for the US consulate said Tuesday. 
	
	
 "The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call." 
	
	
 "No reason was given for the disapproval," the spokeswoman added. 
	
	
 The bar on the USS Curtis Wilbur with some 346 crew is seen as reflecting Beijing's anger over Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month. 
	
	
 Beijing has twice summoned the US ambassador for dressings down over the issue, while a state-controlled newspaper reported last week that China was preparing to cancel naval exchanges with the United States in retaliation. 
	
	
 The last time such a request was turned down was in May last year following the collision of a US spy plane with a Chinese fighter jet in international air space over the South China Sea on April 1, 2001. 
	
	
 However, US naval visits to Hong Kong resumed in July. 
	
	
 There were two other similar episodes of permission being denied before that since the 1997 handover of the former British colony to China. 
	
	
 One of them was after the Chinese embassy in Yugoslavia was bombed, killing three people, in the US-led NATO air campaign three years ago. 
	
	
 When Hong Kong was under British rule, the US navy made up to 65 port calls a year and Beijing had agreed the stopovers would continue after the territory returned to Chinese sovereignty. 
	
	
	


	
STATE VISIT: The US president is getting good reviews from political experts for refusing to restate the `three nos' and declining to endorse peaceful reunification 
	
	
 As US President George W. Bush wrapped up his six-day visit to Asia yesterday, analysts gave their thumbs up to his determination to voice his firm support for Taiwan despite pressure from China to do otherwise. 
	
	
 "We felt gratified and relieved after watching Bush stick to his principles on the issue of Taiwan. He did not make any concessions, even after his meetings with the Chinese leaders in Beijing," said Cheng Tuan-yao, research fellow at the Institute of International Relations in National Chengchi University. 
	
	
 While past trips to China by US presidents have produced agreements or statements that have damaged Taiwan's interests, Bush's visit only enhanced the nation's confidence in his administration, Cheng said. 
	
	
 "Bush has made the first correct step by spurning his predecessor's appeasement of China. Notably, he didn't restate the so-called `three nos' policy," said DPP legislator Parris Chang (Chang Hsu-ch'eng) of Bush's remarks on Taiwan during his two-day trip to Beijing that concluded yesterday afternoon. 
	
	
 Former US president Bill Clinton agitated Taiwan when he gave the so-called "three nos" speech during his visit to China in 1998. The "three nos" include no support for an independent Taiwan; no recognition of "two Chinas'' or one China and a separate Taiwan; and no support for Taiwan's entry into international organizations that require members to be states. 
	
	
 "Bush has been very forthcoming in stating the US commitment to defend Taiwan against the possible use of force by China," said Chang, a specialist in international relations. 
	
	
 Bush reitered his desire for a peaceful settlement of the Taiwan issue several times during his trip to Beijing. The US president also declined to endorse China's version of a "peaceful unification" between Taiwan and China, reflecting the longstanding US position on cross-strait relations, analysts said. 
	
	
 "Of course he would not use the term of `peaceful reunification' ... because the American position is that relations between Taiwan and China should be open-ended," Chang said. 
	
	
 "The three communiques have not committed the US to peaceful reunification," he added. 
	
	
 China's Vice Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing, in a speech in Washington earlier this month, urged the US to support "peaceful unification." 
	
	
 But Bush's refusal to respond to a similar push by a student yesterday during the question-and-answer session of his talk at Tsinghua University showed that the US president stuck to the US existing policy, according to analysts. 
	
	
 Cheng pointed out what he saw as the implications of Bush's remarks on missile defense. 
	
	
 "Bush said any missile-defense system was to protect friends and allies of the US from countries with massive destructive capabilities. Although he did not mention Taiwan directly, the implication of this remark seemed to be that Taiwan was not to be excluded," Cheng said. 
	
	
 Bush described Taiwan as a "good friend" of the US during his weekly radio address to the US public that aired last week within hours of his departure for Asia. 
	
	
 Bush's mention several times of the Taiwan Relations Act, the 1979 US law that pledged that the US would supply Taiwan with the defensive weapons it needed to fend off a Chinese attack, also reflected his firm support for Taiwan, analysts said. 
	
	
 China has tried to highlight and accentuate the Taiwan issue during Bush's trip to China, but the US agenda rested instead on anti-terrorism and China's proliferation of arms sale to countries like Iran and Pakistan, Chang argued. 
	
	
 But as Bush concluded his trip to Asia yesterday, it was clear that China failed to elicit from him a statement on the "three nos" and on opposition to Taiwanese independence, Chang said. 
	
	
 The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said. 
	
	
 The Pentagon's quadrennial defense review issued last September -- which highlighted the rising Chinese threat -- and the recent testimony by the CIA director to the US Senate on China's military modernization were indicative of the Bush administration's perception of China as a growing threat to US national security. 
	
	
 "These two reports seemed to indicate that the Bush administration took China's rising military threat more seriously than did the Clinton's administration. And therefore, the US is much more forthcoming in voicing its support for Taiwan," Chang said. 
	
	
 Fresh from his trip to Washington, where US government officials highlighted Taiwan's contribution to the war against terrorism, Chang said, "Even as a small country, we stood with the US at that critical moment, and the US appreciated that and has reciprocated what we've done."	


	
China has launched three unmanned spacecraft consecutively and exhibited to the world the capsules recovered. People have seen the true features of these space capsules. What exactly then is a manned spaceship? 
	
	
 It is learned that the manned spaceship will have a liftoff weight of about eight tonnes, and is less than 10 meters long and 3.5 meters in diameter. It can carry two to three astronauts and continue to cruise in space for more than 20 days. 
	
	
 The spaceship has been designed with comprehensive reference to the Russian spaceship Soyuz. The spaceship is composed of three cylindrical capsules, with the orbiter capsule fitted on the forefront. Its interior is equipped with corresponding facilities for space observation and space drug and microgravity tests. The return capsule, connected to the orbiter capsule, is the cockpit of the astronauts and the only capsule that will reenter the atmosphere for landing. Three reclining seats will be installed in the capsule for astronauts. Instrument panel, control shaft, and optical telescope will be installed below the seats. At the rear of the spaceship is the propulsion capsule to provide thrust to the spaceship in orbital control and return to earth. In accordance with the plan, China's manned spaceship will conduct a series of scientific tests and earth observation after it is launched into space. 
	
	
 Space technology will not only be used for civilian, but also for military purposes, and there is no exception for China. It is speculated that the spaceship will almost certainly be equipped with facilities relating to military observation and attack on enemy satellites. Therefore, the manned spaceflight will enable China to have preliminary space combat capability. 
	
	
 According to the experience of the United States and Russia, one of the greatest problems of manned spaceship is inadequate power supply. The solar energy batteries usually cannot meet the needs of numerous equipment on a spaceship. However, it is understood that China has successfully resolved this problem to provide sufficient power supply for its spaceship. After completing the orbital flight, the spaceship will adjust itself to the return position by following ground command and ignite the engine to change to the orbit for returning to the earth. Before gliding into the atmosphere, the orbiter and propulsion capsules will be discarded. 
	
	
 By referring to the designs of the Russia spaceship Soyuz, it is very possible that China will apply the lift control technology in its manned spaceship. This technology will enable the spaceship to limit its mobility in the atmosphere. In the altitude of about several thousands of meters, the return capsule will eject the parachutes to further reduce the speed. It is reported that in the past China's recovery site for returning satellites was in the mountains of Sichuan Province. 
	
	
 To facilitate recovery and rescue in future manned spaceflight, the recovery site will be located in sparsely populated grassland or the wilderness. Judging from the selection of recovery sites for the two previous flights, the site for recovering the manned spaceship may be situated in the grassland of Inner Mongolia. 
	
	
 The next step after the land recovery, China may change to recovering the manned spaceship on the sea. 
	
	
 An informed source has said that it can be seen that the designs for China's manned spaceflight have taken into consideration future modifications. For the next flight, the top of the spaceship's orbiter capsule may be installed with a docking module for docking tests between two spaceships. The concerned person said that this is a prelude to China's space station development plan.	


	
Lugano, 8 Jan -- Spanish-Israeli businessman Felipe Turover has denounced the Swiss in front of the European Human Rights Court in Strasbourg for having put his life in danger in its case against [Secretary of the Russian-Belarus Union] Pavel Borodin, former Kremlin senior aid accused of money laundering, according to a communique Tuesday from his lawyer Niccolo Salvioni. 
	
	
 According to the communique, received at the Swiss news agency ATS, the 37-year-old M. Turover --considered by the Swiss courts as a key witness -- had asked the Swiss Government and the Swiss Public Ministry that he be put under protection, believing himself threatened by the Russian Mafia because of leaks by Swiss court officials. 
	
	
 Pavel Borodin, the former property manager of the Kremlin, is suspected of having laundered some $25 million in secret commissions which came from two Swiss companies headquartered in the Tessin (southeast) region -- Mercata, and Mabetex -- in exchange for being awarded the contracts for the renovation of the Kremlin and the Russian presidential aircraft in 1995 and 1996. 
	
	
 At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court. 
	
	
 Turover accused Mme. Del Ponte of having furnished -- in 1999 when she headed the Swiss Public Ministry -- confidential information to the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera which made numerous revelations about the Mabetex-Borodin affair, including the existence of credit cards in the name of the Yeltsin family. The newspaper presented Turover as a key informer in this affair and the Spanish-Israeli businessman affirmed that these leaks had put his life in danger. 
	
	
 Today, Turover is accusing the Swiss authorities of having violated on several occasions the European Convention on Human Rights. The communique from his lawyer affirms that the Swiss authorities, the Federal Tribunal, and the Swiss Public Ministry "have given proof of illegality and political persecution." 
	
	
 Mabetex, a construction company, is suspected of having landed public contracts for renovating the Kremlin and other Russian official buildings by offering bribes worth a dozen million dollars in 1995 and 1996 to close associates of former Russian president Boris Yeltsin, including to Borodin. 
	
	
 At the request of the Geneva court, Borodin was arrested in the United States January 17, 2001. He agreed to be extradited to Switzerland April 7th. After six days in preventive detention, he was released on bail for $3 million. 
	
	
	


	
A cargo ship intercepted in the Channel after a tip-off that it might be carrying terrorist materials was today given the all clear, police said. 
	
	
 The 450ft long vessel Nisha, carrying 26,000 tonnes [metric tons] of raw sugar, was stopped on Friday morning [21 December] amid fears it could be transporting noxious, hazardous or dangerous substances. 
	
	
 But after a detailed examination of the ship, which is currently moored off the Isle of Wight, nothing suspicious was found, police said. 
	
	
 Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's specialist operations, said: "New information, combined with the relentless efforts of scientific experts, our detailed knowledge of the ship and its movements, and very careful examination of the vessel over the last three days leads us to be completely satisfied that the Nisha is not a suspicious vessel and does not pose a danger." 
	
	
 The Nisha was halted by anti-terrorist police, the Royal Navy and Customs and Excise officials after a tip-off that it contained "terrorist material" and the Royal Navy frigate HMS Sutherland intercepted her in international waters, about 30 miles south of Beachy Head. 
	
	
 The MV Nisha is operated by the Great Eastern Shipping Company, based in Bombay, India. 
	
	
 It had recently stopped in the east African country of Djibouti, a neighbour of Somalia, which has been linked to Usama Bin Ladin's al Qa'ida terror network. 
	
	
 The ship had sailed from Mauritius and was carrying a cargo of sugar to the Tate &amp;amp; Lyle refinery on the Thames at Silvertown in east London, according to the company. 
	
	
 Police had earlier indicated they expected the search to take a number of weeks, because of the vessel's size and design, but experts completed the job today. 
	
	
 Anti-terrorist officers said they were also satisfied that the ship's crew and owners had not committed any offence. 
	
	
 Mr Veness said the ship was now in a position to continue its journey, but completion of the voyage was still subject to consultation with all interested parties. 
	
	
 He added: "We have not detected any signs of interference and we do not believe that the seals of the holds have been interfered with. 
	
	
 "We had anticipated that detailed examination of the ship might take rather longer. This was to ensure that there was no chance of risk to the public. 
	
	
 "The cargo ship Nisha was intercepted and boarded as part of an intelligence-led operation. 
	
	
 "This was the right and proper course of action to take. Thankfully, the ship has been proved not to pose a danger to the public." 
	
	
 Mr Veness praised the crew and ship's owners for their co-operation and said: "We remain vigilant and are totally committed to ensuring the safety of the public. 
	
	
 "We would take similar action in the future if there was a potential risk to the public." 
	
	
 The Nisha's cargo of raw sugar is owned by the Mauritius Sugar Syndicate, which had chartered the vessel, and the vessel was due to dock in east London yesterday. 
	
	
 The chairman of the British arm of the Great Eastern Shipping Company, Sudhir Mulji, confirmed that the vessel had stopped over at Djibouti before its current journey to drop off American grain as part of a food aid shipment. 
	
	
 The ship then went on to Mauritius to pick up the sugar and left on November 20 to transport it to Britain. 
	
	
 The Great Eastern Shipping Company, which has offices in India, London, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, is a leading Indian shipping and offshore service provider with a fleet of 38 cargo-carrying vessels.	


	
Settlers Have Taken Palestine Hostage 
	
	
 A few days ago the parties in the Palestine conflict found themselves at a crossroads. The escalation of the conflict has now cost over 1,000 people their lives in the space of the past 18 months. 
	
	
 One-third Israelis, two-thirds Palestinians. Circumstances have led to a situation where today the two parties in the conflict find themselves on the road that leads swiftly to the abyss. 
	
	
 On Thursday the Arab Summit in the Lebanese capital of Beirut ended with the adoption of a resolution whose content illustrated how far the Arab world has come since the summit that took place in the Sudanese capital of Khartoum in 1967, shortly after the Israeli victory in the Six Days War. 
	
	
 It was then that the Arab heads of state adopted the three noes: no to negotiations with Israel, no to recognition, no to peace. 
	
	
 On Thursday the summit adopted a resolution that proposed the recognition of the Jewish state, normal relations, and an end to the conflict in return for Israeli withdrawal from the Palestinian territories that Israel has occupied for almost 35 years. 
	
	
 Even the mention of one of the cardinal problems between Israel and the Palestinians - the future of the 3 million Arab refugees - was couched in terms softer than at any time in the past. 
	
	
 The summit's declaration was the best piece of news the Middle East has produced since the Oslo Accords between Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin and Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat were signed on the lawn in front of the White House in Washington in 1993. 
	
	
 The resolution that was put forward by Saudi Arabia was a plea addressed to the Israeli people over the heads of Ariel Sharon's government. No Arab leader was in any doubt that from Sharon's standpoint the resolution was not welcome. 
	
	
 The resolution forced him into a corner. Sharon neither can nor will give up the occupied territories, and so he would be unmasked in the eyes of the whole world as the man standing in the way of peace in the Middle East. 
	
	
 A few hours after the end of the summit chance came to Sharon's rescue. 
	
	
 On Thursday evening a Palestinian suicide bomber attacked a hotel in Natanya where a couple of hundred people had gathered for the traditional Passover meal. Twenty-two people were killed, in addition to the suicide bomber, and 130 were injured. 
	
	
 The bomber was a member of Hamas, the radical Muslim organization. He was known to the Israeli intelligence service. His name figured on a list that Israel had shortly before handed over to the Palestinian security service. 
	
	
 Despite Arafat's promise to take action to neutralize the people on the list, he did not lift a finger. 
	
	
 That same night the Israeli security cabinet met. They decided to take steps to destroy the "Palestinian terrorist structure, arrest its leaders, confiscate arms, and so on." 
	
	
 As a first step Israeli forces were sent into the main Palestinian town, Ramallah, where Arafat has his headquarters and from where the autonomous Palestinian areas are administered. 
	
	
 A few weeks previously Sharon had described Arafat as "irrelevant." Now he declared that Arafat was an "enemy." 
	
	
 He is now a prisoner in his own headquarters. The Palestinian Authority has effectively ceased to function. 
	
	
 Prior to the Natanya massacre Washington had imposed a number of limitations on Sharon. Israeli's antiterrorist operations must not bring the Palestinian Authority to collapse, Israeli forces must not reconquer the territories under the jurisdiction of the authority, and Arafat the man must not be molested. 
	
	
 This time Washington is largely keeping silent. It has not sent the usual appeals to both sides. Quite the reverse: Anonymous U.S. sources say that Washington holds Arafat responsible for the fact that U.S. mediator Anthony Zinni's endeavors to arrange a cease-fire have now foundered. 
	
	
 According to these sources, Sharon had accepted the cease-fire proposal, while Arafat hesitated. Before he had announced his agreement, the Natanya massacre and the Israeli counteraction occurred. 
	
	
 For the time being at least the United States has thus given Sharon a free hand. His problem is that he does not know what to do with it. The action that is currently taking place can at best only throw the terrorist groups off balance for a time. 
	
	
 It cannot solve the Israeli people's security problems, because the root of the terrorism is the Israeli occupation and the Israeli settlements on occupied territory. 
	
	
 The settlers, who number around 220,000 people, have taken the Israeli Government and consequently both the Israeli and Palestinian peoples hostage. 
	
	
 Sharon is a master of escalation. He demonstrated this he as defense minister during the 1982 invasion of Lebanon, which led to Arafat's being forced into exile in Tunis. It is likely that at present Sharon is entertaining similar thoughts and wants to create step by step a situation that will make it possible for him to rid himself of his enemy. 
	
	
 But this is a conflict without winners. Military superiority cannot solve problems that are fundamentally of a political nature. The day the Israeli tanks again leave Ramallah they will have sown the seed for new terrorist actions. 
	
	
 Terrorism thrives in an atmosphere of hate, and the Israeli occupation and the use of military force are creating the fertile soil from which future terrorists will be recruited. 
	
	
	


	
COOLUM, Australia, March 3 (AFP) -- Hopes of a breakthrough in the Commonwealth's bitter deadlock over Zimbabwe rose Sunday as Canada sought to resolve the row after African nations accused Britain of neo-colonialism. 
	
	
 Political violence in the lead up to Zimbabwe's elections next weekend again overshadowed the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) during a second day of crunch talks here. 
	
	
 Britain and Australia have abandoned their push to suspend Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth before the March 9-10 elections in face of increasingly angry opposition led by Nigeria, South Africa and Tanzania. 
	
	
 But Britain still wants sanctions imposed if Commonwealth monitors find evidence of ballot rigging. 
	
	
 They believe the credibility of the Commonwealth will be severely damaged if there is no decisive action. 
	
	
 British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Sunday that if President Robert Mugabe won and it were clear he had won by fraud, then he had no doubt Zimbabwe would be suspended. 
	
	
 "I mean, if there wasn't (suspension) in these circumstances, the Commonwealth would be badly damaged," he warned. 
	
	
 However, Zimbabwe's minister of state for information, Jonathan Mayo, accused Blair of leading a "racist" campaign against its former colony and lashed out at his attacks on Mugabe as "thoroughly disgraceful and unacceptable". 
	
	
 "What we do in Zimbabwe as an independent sovereign state is in accordance with our constitution and our laws," Moyo told reporters. 
	
	
 He also claimed the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was a British sponsored candidate. 
	
	
 Tanzania's President Benjamin Mkapa earlier told journalists in a stout and rare public defence of Mugabe, that even discussing the situation at the Coolum talks threatened the "prerogative and sovereign right of the people of Zimbabwe to make an unfettered choice of their leader and government". 
	
	
 "How does it (the Commonwealth) handle Zimbabwe? Why should it handle Zimbabwe?", Mkapa said, railing at what is being perceived as interference in another country's internal affairs. 
	
	
 But proposals involving a timetable for the imposition of post-election sanctions put forward by Canada's Prime Minister Jean Chretien to the leaders' retreat provided the first sign of a possible breakthrough. 
	
	
 "Everybody has agreed that nothing will be done before the elections", Chretien told reporters here Sunday, adding a communique would be issued Monday. 
	
	
 "The Canadian position was that the elections will occur a week from now and that we have observers there. We have to wait until the elections are over before concluding." 
	
	
 He said the formula proposed by Canada would include "a mechanism for a quick decision" once the results of the elections are known, but would not be drawn further. 
	
	
 It is believed that the proposal calls for a report from observers within two weeks of the elections, and a decision to be made in full on whether to impose sanctions within four weeks. 
	
	
 Mugabe has reportedly told Blair "to keep your pink nose out of our affairs," the Sun-Herald reported here Sunday. 
	
	
 "Go to hell," said Mugabe. "Our people have decided and that is what matters to us. It's not their (Britain's) right or responsibility to decide on our elections." 
	
	
 Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer told Australian television Sunday there was some sympathy for Mugabe's comments among African leaders, whose countries were once part of the British empire. 
	
	
 "There is still that very strong sense that Britain and other countries (are) sometimes being neo-colonialist." 
	
	
 The 54-nation Commonwealth is one of the few organisations to have observers on the ground in Zimbabwe in the run-up to elections in which the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) led by Tsvangirai is challenging Mugabe's 22-year rule. 
	
	
 The issue has threatened to fracture the organisation along rich/poor, black/white lines, despite calls from its head, Queen Elizabeth II, in her opening address Saturday to work to bridge cultural differences. 
	
	
 Several Asian nations have privately said they would also oppose sanctions. 
	
	
 Fijian Foreign Minister Kaliopate Tavola told journalists that as a nation which has suffered Commonwealth sanctions, Fiji believed they were the wrong way to go. 
	
	
 Fiji was only readmitted to the Commonwealth in January after being expelled following the 2000 coup. 
	
	
	


	
During the past weeks Europe and America witnessed the arrangement of important international conferences, which could on the one hand guarantee the peace and stability of the world, or could instead deteriorate the conditions. The conference in New York, which dealt with a ban on demand for light arms, and the Genoa Conference which had a much wider and extended agenda, had two common features between them. The first was that large and numerous bodies of dissidents were opposing the wishes and interests of a small but powerful group. The second feature was that both conferences ended without effective result, and the decisions taken and resolutions adopted there lacked conclusiveness and were not operational. The Bonn Conference however, which dealt with the global environment and examined the condition of world climate, could be appraised as an exception and a relative success. 
	
	
 After two weeks of discussion and exchange of views at the New York Conference, it was decided to pay heed to the resolute demands advanced by the majority of the participants, who emphatically insisted on the imposition of a ban on the sale of light weaponry. But paying heed was not tantamount to endorsement of the demand launched by those countries; rather, the final result came out as a compromise solution and a relative back up by the majority group. 
	
	
 The joint demand and stand by the majority of countries attending the conference was encountered by firm opposition by the United States [of America]. American delegates at the conference maintained that any restriction or ban on the sale, possession, and carrying of light armaments was practically the same as limiting the freedom of action [as published] of American citizens, and equal to reducing their margin of security. This is while possessing arms for self-defense is itself a factor that breeds insecurity. Critics of the meeting, on the margin of the conference, up held the view that the American government, instead of heeding the wishes of international community, and protecting the security of world nations, and above all the safety of its own citizens, has paid more attention to the interests of corporations and huge arms producers and military-industrial complexes that reap tremendous profits annually from the sale of such armaments. (It should be noted that the issues moved at the conference were declared unofficial and lacking validity [legal force] even for the participating countries.) [Sentences are as published] The most important of the three conferences, which subsequently gained even more prominence, was the conference in Genova; perhaps even more so for the results "not obtained" at the conference, and which led to the subsequent intense dissatisfaction and frustration of the leading industrial states attending the meeting. The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and ... [as published] They meant to reach some form of agreement or understanding about those issues, but unexpected events left all that in limbo and uncertainty. The conference opened with fierce demonstrations by the opponents of economic globalization, who maintained that what is being concocted by globalization is in fact poverty. When Italian police intervened and roughly handled the demonstrations, things got out of hand; the already volatile situation reached boiling point, violent clashes broke out, and the killing of one protestor overshadowed all other issues. The whole incident was in fact unprecedented in the history of European democracies, and has prompted a whole range of controversies and debates. 
	
	
 It can safely be claimed that the events in Genoa have influenced [overshadowed] the very conferences in New York and Bonn; whereas, from the onset, the weak results of Genoa was foreseeable for most observers. Because, from the very start it could be predicted that on the subject of economic globalization, the developed and capitalist states were going to come across fierce opposition by dissident groups and the supporters of economic growth in poor countries. 
	
	
 Regarding the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System too, neither Russia, China, Japan, nor even the European Union, had shown any enthusiasm; rather they had all expressed their reserves on the project. Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol. Whereas, beforehand, it was anticipated and hoped that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well. Even the eagerness for playing an intermediary role in the Middle East crisis has given rise to fierce competition between America, European Union, and Russia and China. And it is likely that until each party seeks its own particular interest in the conflict, and until the rivalry persists, the question would continue to remain unresolved. 
	
	
 What, however, was most remarkable in the conferences in New York and Genoa, was the fact that most decisions made, were based on interests and tastes of particular groups [lobbies]. Here are the views expressed by two of the prominent characters attending the Genoa Conference. Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: "They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor..." Similarly, Gerhard Schroeder, the German Chancellor, too had claimed that the participants at the summit meeting were the true, legitimate, and elected representatives of the people of their countries. In the remarks made by these political leaders, one point is interesting and calls for reflection: if these leaders reject the interference of others in the condition and destiny of the poor nations, while present themselves legitimate and competent to make far reaching decisions for them, then it must be said that they are only the elected [leaders] of their own nation [people], and this does not entitle them to act as representative or legal attorney of all people worldwide! [Exclamation mark as published] In view of the criticisms, which have been made, they could perhaps be also considered to be the representative of powerful corporations that have placed the whole "world economy" under their influence, and as a result of that they are also controlling the world of politics globally. 
	
	
 At the Bonn Conference too, the agenda was to tackle and discuss the most urgent and indispensable factors concerning the life of humankind. The remarkable feature of this conference was the joint resolution adopted by 180 countries worldwide --- in regard to protection of environment, and above all reducing the emission of greenhouse gases ---, which has isolated America in an undeniable way. It was due to this isolation that America, in spite of discrediting [undermining] the Kyoto Protocol and declining to comply with the Bonn Conference [resolution], was forced to at least make a promise to cooperate in preventing an increase in air pollution. 
	
	
 To recap, if there ever existed any possibility that at the conferences of New York and Genoa questions regarding: promotion of world security, improvement of economic conditions, defusing regional and global crises and conflicts, checking unleashed competition for rearmament, reduction of the gap between the mainstream and peripheral countries, and ... could be addressed and appropriate, serious, and worthy measures for their solution could be adopted, the opportunity was very easily lost and the meetings flopped completely. As regards the recent conference (Bonn Meeting), although the past gatherings like the Hague meeting and Kyoto conference have proved to be failed experiences, nevertheless as the climatic and atmospheric crises are growing more serious, one can be optimistic and hopeful about the success of such protocols and pacts, and implementation of the agreements, even though they are not protected by any sanctions. 
	
	
 ENDALL ARZK 
	
	
	


	
KINSHASA, July 14 (AFP) - Some 60 representatives of civil society, parties, rebel groups and government in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) are to take part in preparatory talks on reviving political dialogue in the vast country next month, an official said Saturday. 
	
	
 A representative of the facilitator of the talks, Hacen Ould Lebatt, told a media conference here that 38 civil society delegates, representing seven of the DRC's 11 provinces, had already been designated. 
	
	
 The round of consultations ahead of the start of formal negotiations between the various parties -- dubbed the "inter-Congolese dialogue" -- will begin August 20 in the Botswana capital Gaborone, the facilitator of the talks, former Botswana president Ketumile Masire, announced this week. 
	
	
 Masire's team, which has criss-crossed the former Zaire to prepare for the talks, is currently pursuing its mission in the provinces of Bandundu, Bas-Congo, Equateur, and in the capital Kinshasa, Lebatt said. 
	
	
 Masire said this week he was determined to "ensure that people from all corners of the country are allowed to express their views", adding that he wanted to avoid a "superficial" exercise. 
	
	
 The national dialogue is a feature of peace accords signed in 1999 by all warring parties in the former Zaire -- two rebel groups, their backers Rwanda and Uganda, and the Kinshasa government and its allies, Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia. 
	
	
 Masire was brought back into the DRC peace process in February this year as facilitator for the inter-Congolese dialogue by President Joseph Kabila. 
	
	
 The young president's father Laurent, assassinated in January, had sidelined Masire after accusing him of being biased in favour of the rebels. 
	
	
 Lebatt told the media conference that deep divergences remained concerning the designation of delegates to represent DRC political parties, and those to represent the parties who signed the Lusaka agreement. 
	
	
 "The political players must overcome their divisions by finding a formula for consensus," said Lebatt, who is former foreign and cooperation minister of Mauritania. 
	
	
 The Lusaka accord merely speaks about "political opposition", he said. "One must ask 'opposition to whom and what?'." 
	
	
 Lebatt said the facilitation team expected to draw up a final list of participants by August 6. 
	
	
 The conflict in the former Zaire broke out when rebels backed by Laurent Kabila's erstwhile allies Rwanda and Uganda launched an insurgency in August 1998. 
	
	
	


	
Russian guards seize 87 kg of heroin on Tajik-Afghan border 
	
	
 Text of report in English by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS 
	
	
 Dushanbe, 21 July: A patrol of Russia's border guards discovered two sacks filled with narcotics on the Moskva border detachment's section of the Tajik-Afghan border on Friday [20 July]. An expert examination showed that the sacks contained 86.9 kilos of pure heroin, head of the press service of Russia's Border Troops in Tajikistan Colonel Aleksandr Kondratyev told ITAR-TASS on Saturday. Drug dealers have lost some 3,600 kilos of narcotics including more than a tonne of heroin on the Tajik-Afghan border since the beginning of the year, the colonel said. During the year 2000 border guards confiscated 2,950 kilos of drugs, including 670 kilos of heroin, Kondratyev noted. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Paris, July 11 (CNA) -- Taiwan's economy will become totally dependent on mainland China within the next few years, causing the island to lose control of its own political fate, a French weekly warned Thursday. 
	
	
 The Nouvel Observateur said that Beijing is unlikely to annex Taiwan by force, despite its deployment of missiles along its coastal provinces opposite Taiwan, but is instead resorting to smarter tactics, bringing the Taiwan authorities to heel through Taiwan businessmen who are eager to explore the mainland Chinese market. 
	
	
 The weekly said that mainland China has attracted more than US$50 billion in investment from Taiwan thus far, while the Taipei authorities bowed to pressure from its own businessmen to lift restrictions on investment in mainland China in May, a move expected to speed up the flow of Taiwan capital to its arch rival. 
	
	
 Barring any reversal to the trend, the weekly quoted U.S. magazine Business Weekly as saying that Beijing might bring the island to its knees without firing one bullet. 
	
	
 Another factor which might deter Beijing's military adventurism in the Taiwan Strait is Washington's "readiness to fight Beijing for Taiwan," which will bear witness to Washington's determination to remain a power in Asia, according to the magazine. 
	
	
 The publication quoted Wu Guoguang, a professor at Hong Kong University, as saying that any concessions by Washington on the Taiwan issue could trigger a defection of its Asian allies, including Japan, to Beijing's fold. 
	
	
 But Beijing's leaders are not likely to blink on the issue either because an independent state in Taiwan would boost the schisms in Tibet and Xinjiang and threaten the regime in Beijing, the magazine claimed. 
	
	
 Although there is only scant possibility of a military conflict in the Taiwan Strait, the Nouvel Observateur said, Beijing's military buildup in its southern coastal provinces still makes the region "the most heavily armed place in the world next only to the Middle East," and a dangerous flashpoint in the 21st century.	


	
Beijing, July 17 (XINHUA)-- DaimlerChrysler AG said Monday that the international recall of Mercedes-Benz luxury cars did not affect vehicle owners in China. 
	
	
 A written statement made by the company's China branch revealed that no glitches had been found in China since its last recall in 1999, Tuesday's China Daily reported. 
	
	
 The Germany-based auto giant recalled 150,000 Mercedes-Benz luxury cars throughout Europe and the Middle East on Friday to fix a defect that could cause the driver's side air bag to deploy prematurely, the newspaper said. 
	
	
 The recall conducted in China in 1999 was purely a precautionary measure and no reports of any incidents in China had been received at that time, China Daily quoted the statement as saying. 
	
	
 The exclusion of China from the recall has led to claims that the firm was biased against Chinese customers. The China Consumers Association said Monday that it had received five complaints of problems related with Benz cars in China, according to China Daily. 
	
	
 The problem was first discovered in March 1996 in Indonesia and led to a November 1999 recall of cars in the United States and Asia, where hot, humid conditions were thought to trigger the air bags. 
	
	
	


	
BRUSSELS, June 29 (AFP) -- Nearly 100 donor countries and international organizations opened their checkbooks here Friday to bail out struggling Yugoslavia after Slobodan Milosevic's lightning transfer to the UN war crimes tribunal in The Hague. 
	
	
 "Nobody is happy when a former president is taken before the tribunal in The Hague, but it had to happen and the sooner the better," Yugoslav Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus told reporters on his arrival here. 
	
	
 The donors' conference, co-sponsored by the European Commission and the World Bank, was hoping to raise 1.25 billion dollars (1.47 billion euros) for Yugoslavia this year for urgent repairs to infrastructure and salaries to teachers and other civil servants. 
	
	
 By midday, the conference had garnered pledges totalling some 1.37 billion dollars in grants and low- or no-interest loans over the next three years, against the target figure set by the World Bank of 3.9 billion dollars for what Belgrade would need for the three-year period. 
	
	
 The European Commission anounced it had pledged a financial package of grants and loans totalling 530 million euros (450 million dollars). 
	
	
 "This pledge is in addition to the pledges of individual EU member states that will be made separately at the conference," said Gunnar Wiegand, spokesman for External Affairs Commissioner Chris Patten. 
	
	
 Labus said the United States, which had until the last minute been uncertain of attending the conference, contingent on Milosevic's extradition, pledged 181.6 million dollars during the morning session. 
	
	
 A German source said Germany had pledged 153 million marks (66.32 million dollars). 
	
	
 Japanese Ambassador to the EU Takayuki Kimura said his country had pledged 50 million dollars, in addition to technical assistance and another 10 million dollars to the whole of southeast Europe, most of it to Yugoslavia. 
	
	
 Johannes Linn, World Bank vice-president for Europe and Central Asia, said the bank had pledged 150 million dollars for the current calendar year and "over the next three years we expect to support Yugoslavia to the tune of about 540 million US dollars in concessional loans." 
	
	
 Linn said that as a result of recent changes in Belgrade, including the Milosevic extradition, "we will now be talking about Yugoslavia as an integral part of the successful formula of trust for economic recovery in the region." 
	
	
 Aside from the financial assistance, said Labus, "this conference is symbolic for us. We are now fully back into the international community, politically, diplomatically and financially, and that's very important for us. 
	
	
 "We decided to make some bold decisions," he said. "We decided to take the fast track to Europe and implement directly the international rules." 
	
	
 Labus said Milosevic's extradition "is of course a part of the equation," but added "broad economic reforms and democracy that we introduced into the country" had played a major role. 
	
	
 "The fact that Milosevic is on the way to be brought to justice is just a signal that my country is ready to respect all international obligations." 
	
	
 Labus recalled that his country was recovering from "a decade of dramatic economic decline, including trade isolation and sanctions... 
	
	
 "We are in the middle of a very complicated process of changing almost completely our political and economic system...This process is long and painful, but we are determined to win." 
	
	
 Infrastructure, including power, water, rail and roads, he said, were "suffering from many years of decay, mismanagement and the consequences of the NATO 1999 bombing campaign" that ended Belgrade's repression of Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority. 
	
	
 "A Yugoslavia that has a firm and decisive program of economic reforms in place is and is increasingly integrated into the wider international community is no longer a dream, it is now a reality." 
	
	
 "There is no quick fix" to the Yugoslav problem, the World Bank's Johannes Linn said. "But the costs of failing to support Yugoslavia as it struggles to break with the past would surely be higher still. 
	
	
 "The possibility of a democratic, stable and prosperous Yugoslavia moving toward integration with Europe is something which we dared not hope for only eight months ago." 
	
	
 In Berlin, Bodo Hombach, coordinator of the Balkans Stability Pact, said several delegations to the Brussels conference told him it was now "easier and more motivating" to supply Belgrade with the aid it desperately needs. 
	
	
 The Stability Pact was launched two years ago to rebuild the region after years of war and communism.	


	
Indonesian authorities have been alerted to the presence of another boat believed to be carrying illegal immigrants bound for Australia. Coastwatch Australia says the boat is 75 nautical miles from Christmas Island [Australian territory in the Indian Ocean], but is still in Indonesian waters. 
	
	
 Indonesia has notified merchant shipping in the area to check if the boat needs any assistance. There has been an unconfirmed report that a Norwegian ship has reached the vessel. 
	
	
 Earlier Australia's immigration minister, Philip Ruddock, said it was believed the boat was carrying 80 people. Coastwatch Australia has maintained surveillance flights in the area for the past two days and will continue flights tomorrow.	


	
Bangkok, Aug. 28 (CNA) -- The Taipei-based Chinese Federation of Labor (CFL) attended the Asian regional meeting of the International Labor Organization (ILO) held Tuesday in Bangkok, mainly because of its work to protect foreign laborers in Taiwan. 
	
	
 CFL President Lin Hui-kuan led the Taiwan delegation to the meeting in the name of observer of the International Confederation of Free Trade Union (ICFTU). It was the first time that a Taiwan labor group has been invited to participate in a meeting of the ILO, which is an affiliate of the United Nations. 
	
	
 The CFL's participation in the meeting did not meet with any objection from Beijing, as it attended as an observer of a non-U.N. organization. Beijing opposes Taiwan's participation in any international organization in which sovereignty is a prerequisite. 
	
	
 Lin told CNA that the CFL gained high appraisal in its efforts to protect the rights of Thai, Filipino, Indonesian and Vietnamese workers in Taiwan. 
	
	
 Taiwan is the only country in Asia that allows foreign laborers to enjoy the same salary levels as their local counterparts, which elevates its image in international society, Lin added. 
	
	
 He indicated that although Taiwan is not a U.N. member, it has signed two international agreements related to labor affairs and abides by all the regulations stipulated by the ILO. 
	
	
 Recently, Lin added, the Republic of China government was about to eliminate the minimum wage requirement for foreign workers mainly due to pressure from the business sector. However, through the protests of local labor groups, foreign laborers' working rights were protected, bringing extra attention to the power of Taiwan labor groups. 
	
	
 Lin noted that Taiwan is one of the ICFTU founders and that its participation in the ILO can serve as a model for Taiwan to take part in international activities. 
	
	
 Lin and his delegation are scheduled to return home Sept. 1 after the quadrennial meeting.	


	
MDC leader Tsvangirai at it again in South Africa 
	
	
 Herald Reporter 
	
	
 OPPOSITION youths are agitating to get guns to "shoot" President Mugabe "out of office," MDC leader, Mr Morgan Tsvangirai said in South Africa yesterday. 
	
	
 Speaking in an address to the Cape Town Press club, Mr Tsvangirai, who is on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by Reuters as saying he was having to "rein in militants keen to fight President Mugabe's rule". 
	
	
 "The first choice is to commit ourselves to the constitutional path with all its obstacles. We are saying we will not resort to any violent overthrow or to any violent means," he was quoted as having said. 
	
	
 "...You have people who are 20 years and 30 years (and) below who are asking if we can get guns and go and shoot the man out of office, but I say: Please, that is the most dangerous thing you can ever do," he said. 
	
	
 Mr Tsvangirai endorsed a United States proposal for targeted sanctions against President Mugabe and members of his Government but said full economic sanctions would be a ruinous mistake. 
	
	
 The US Congress is set to consider the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Bill, which seeks to impose sanctions on Harare. 
	
	
 Mr Tsvangirai called for international action to ensure a free and fair presidential election. 
	
	
 But he opposed any steps that could plunge the country deeper into a recession that has already pushed unemployment, inflation and interest rates above 60 percent. 
	
	
 "If sanctions are imposed on Zimbabwe, it will not survive. That is why, as MDC, we are reluctant at this stage to endorse the sanctions option. 
	
	
 "Until such time as Mugabe actually subverts the electoral process - when one goes to that extreme, international sanctions will be an option. 
	
	
 "However, we do support certain limitations on the villains of the crisis in Zimbabwe," he said. 
	
	
 Mr Tsvangirai might face charges of contravening the Law and Order Maintenance Act for allegedly threatening to violently remove President Mugabe from power last year. 
	
	
 His trial was set to start at the High Court in May but the case was referred to the High Court after he challenged the legality of LOMA in the Supreme Court. 
	
	
 The superior court has since heard State and defence arguments on the legality of the charges being laid against the opposition leader and reserved judgment. 
	
	
 If the Supreme Court rules in favour of Mr Tsvangirai, who if convicted on the charges might face life imprisonment, the Attorney General's Office will have to draw up a new charge. 
	
	
 But if the appeal fails, the matter will be referred back to the High Court for trial. 
	
	
 Charges against the MDC leader arose after he allegedly told a crowd at the party's first anniversary last year that "... Zvatichada, what we would like to tell Mugabe today is that... please go peacefully. If you don't want to go peacefully, we will remove you violently." 
	
	
 That according to the State constituted a breach of the LOMA. 
	
	
 The MDC leader also alleged that the Government was trying to provoke protests that could be used as an excuse to suspend democracy. 
	
	
 But analysts expressed concern that the MDC leader is "flirting with mercenaries in South Africa". 
	
	
 "But anyone who wants to speak the language of violence where Zimbabwe is concerned is playing with fire. Zimbabwe's performance in Mozambique, Somalia and the DRC speaks for itself. 
	
	
 "The quickest defeat of Tsvangirai and his MDC lot would come if they chose the path of violence," an analyst who spoke on condition of anonymity said.	


	
A cow grazing near the village of Meresti [Harghita County] was bitten by a fox suffering from rabies. As a consequence, the cow was infected as well. This is the first such case here, and the third one since 1999. The symptoms appeared within a few days. The owner though that the animal was suffering from some intoxication, which was confirmed also by the veterinarian called to examine the cow. Very soon, however, the symptoms indicated that it was suffering from rabies: it was banging its head against the crib and it was very restless. The owner put down the animal, although the vet had forbidden him to do so. The latter took the cow's head to a lab, where they found that it had been suffering from rabies. The owner and a neighbor who had helped him put down the animal were sent urgently to the Hospital for Infectious Diseases in Miercurea Ciuc, where they received preventive anti-rabies treatment. The carcass of the cow was burned and buried, and the stable was disinfected.!
 The Harghita County Sanitary and Veterinary Directorate has started an anti-rabies campaign, in which they are to vaccinate more than 70,000 cattle, horses, sheep, and pigs in 22 localities.	


	
Russia favours creation of "international instruments" to regulate emissions 
	
	
 Text of report in English by Russian news agency Interfax 
	
	
 Moscow, 16 July: The Russian Foreign Ministry has called for "taking into account Russia's specific interests" in working out international documents concerning the regulation of emissions. A Foreign Ministry statement in connection with the opening of a conference of the signatories to the UN framework convention on climate change in Bonn reads that taking into account Russia's interests "is of vital importance from the viewpoint of prospects for the ratification of the Kyoto protocol inside the state". Russia is "interested in creating international instruments for regulating emissions, which will guarantee the stable economic development of all signatories to international agreements on the climate sphere without any exceptions", the statement reads. "The US decision to withdraw from introducing state measures to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases negatively affects the world community's efforts to ensure the global and efficient character of the Kyoto protocol," the document reads. 
	
	
	


	
China's minister in charge of Taiwan affairs says Beijing will not resort to force to defend Taiwan despite the changing situation on the island, which he described as "our renegade province". 
	
	
 Wang Yi, who made a three-day working visit to Thailand last week, sought to allay fears amongst allies in Asia about its cross-straits ties with Taiwan. He gave an assurance that the situation would not escalate into war despite the latter's acquisition of offensive weapons from the United States. 
	
	
 "Weapons cannot prevent Taiwan from reuniting with China," he told Thai and Chinese media last week. 
	
	
 Wang's visit, which will also take in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia, comes as pressure mounts on both sides to resume dialogue as Beijing is poised to become a member of the World Trade Organisation next year. 
	
	
 Taiwan will follow suit shortly after. 
	
	
 He said Beijing will maintain its pursuit of peaceful unification with Taiwan and welcomed the resumption of dialogue, bogged down since 1999. 
	
	
 At that time, then president Lee Teng-hui demanded political parity by unilaterally redefining bilateral ties as "special state-to-state" relations. 
	
	
 While President Chen Shui-bian has mellowed his stance on independence, he has refused to bow to the "one-China policy", a precondition for dialogue. 
	
	
 In his latest speech, Chen said the long-standing dispute with China must be resolved through dialogue with respect to the principles of democracy and freedom. 
	
	
 Nevertheless, Taiwan heightened its diplomatic campaign through what Wang said was "parliamentarian" or "private diplomacy" to win recognition from Beijing's allies. 
	
	
 Beijing was so worried about the tactic that Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji raised the matter in May with Thai leaders during his official visit to Thailand. He said the number of Thai politicians visiting Taiwan, especially members of Parliament, was increasing at an "unusual" rate. 
	
	
 "We disapproved of these visits because no matter in what capacity these people travel, Taiwan treats them as official visits. To us, parliamentarians still hold a quasi-official status," he said. 
	
	
 Taiwanese officials in Bangkok always claimed these trips from Thailand to Taiwan were voluntary and initiated by the visitors themselves. 
	
	
 Wang said Beijing raised no objections to the so-called stop-over tactic used by Taiwanese leaders as long as the visits do not generate political activities in the host country. 
	
	
 Despite a still-tense relationship, Wang is optimistic reunification will eventually happen as was the case with Hong Kong and Macau. He said the decline in President Chen's popularity could be attributed to the drop in the number of people favouring independence. 
	
	
 "I believe less than 10 per cent of Taiwanese now favour independence," he said. 
	
	
 However, according to broad statistics, Taiwan-born voters favouring independence account for 65 per cent of the island's 23 million population. Wang believes unification will benefit people on both sides of the Taiwan Straits. Last year there were 2.85 million Taiwanese visitors in China, he said. 
	
	
	


	
VIENNA, Sept 6 (AFP) - The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe agreed Thursday [6 September] to send 25 additional monitors in Macedonia, joining the 26 observers working to prevent a new Balkans war in the republic. 
	
	
 OSCE ambassadors from the organisation's 55 member states agreed to send the additional monitors after Russia lifted its objections to the beefed up presence. 
	
	
 Russia had slowed the decision, which was expected to have been announced a week before, raising concerns about their mandate in contrast with that of the NATO mission to collect weapons from ethnic Albanian rebels. 
	
	
 Macedonia has asked for more monitors, hoping they would help stop the country plunging into civil war between ethnic Albanian guerrillas and the Slav majority of the population. 
	
	
 NATO has entered Macedonia to collect weapons from the guerrillas, but its 30-day mission is due to end on September 26. That means Macedonia's stability will depend on other organisations, including the OSCE. 
	
	
 But the monitors' mandate, established in 1992, only includes surveying the security situation and the return of refugees, an OSCE official said. 
	
	
 The permanent council is still to adopt a new mandate which would make the OSCE, among others, responsible for training a new Macedonian police force, helping to organise a census and new elections, he added. 
	
	
 "In the meantime, doubling the number of monitors should help put people's minds at ease," he said. 
	
	
 The OSCE comprises 55 states in Europe, central Asia, the United States and Canada. Monitors have been present in Macedonia for some years alongside European Union observers. 
	
	
	


	
Tajikistan: drug-busting hampered by obsolete equipment 
	
	
 Text of report in English by Russian news agency Interfax 
	
	
 Moscow, 5 July: Due to poor technical equipment, Tajikistan seizes only 10 per cent of the drugs transited through its territory from Afghanistan, Director of the Tajik anti-drug agency Rustam Nazarov has said. "Since our technical equipment is far from perfect, we perhaps seize even less than 10 per cent," Nazarov said in an interview with the Thursday edition of Nezavisimaya Gazeta. Out of 2,200 kg of drugs seized this year in Tajikistan, only 837 kg were seized at the border, and the rest inside the country, Nazarov said. "Our agency seriously needs equipment for detecting drugs," he said. "We do not have special devices for inspecting large automobiles and cargoes," Nazarov said, adding that his service does not have enough communications equipment, either. 
	
	
	


	
On the afternoon of August 29, after several delays due to various causes, Japan successfully launched its H2A rocket No. 1 into space from Tanegashima Space Center. This milestone puts Japan's aerospace development program back on track. 
	
	
 The carrier rocket is the foundation of space exploration and utilization. It is also the first hurdle to overcome to realize any astronautical program. Japan previously developed the L and M series of launch vehicles. However, these two rockets are primarily used to launch low orbit satellites. In order to launch large stationary satellites, Japan developed the H series rocket. The major performance characteristics of the H series rocket are comparable to those developed by the United States and some European nations. The Japanese aerospace community takes a great deal of pride in this achievement. 
	
	
 In order to compete with the United States, Europe, and China, Japan decided to drastically reduce its costs, especially in every aspect of rocket design and manufacture. It adopted the simplest design and implemented various cost-cutting measures in an attempt to lower the manufacturing cost per satellite from 19 billion yen to 9 billion yen. It is supposed to be the next generation rocket that is both inexpensive and highly reliable. However, things did not go according to plan. This low cost approach brought about a series of satellite launch failures. In November 1999, a "multi-purpose" satellite was launched by H2 rocket No. 8. It did not enter its predetermined orbit and had to be destroyed. This was the third failure in a row. After this incident, Japan began to redesign the main engine of the H2 rocket. Eventually, the H2A rocket was developed. 
	
	
 In addition to carrier rockets, Japan also invested heavily in the development and utilization of various satellite technologies. Japan wishes to build a $21 billion per year aerospace industry centered on commercial satellite development. In the field of satellite communications, Japan's National Space Development Agency (NASDA) spent $310 million to develop the ETS-8 (Engineering Test Satellite 8) satellite. This satellite doubled the capacity of the test satellite previously launched by Japan. This program not only puts Japan in the lead in providing new mobile communication services in the Asia-Pacific region, but also allows Japan to test some new satellite communication techniques to be introduced worldwide. A Japanese made H2A rocket will launch this satellite in 2002. 
	
	
 Military surveillance satellites are also included in its development plan. Japan has prepared a military space program and allocated $1.3 billion to implement it. It will create a military surveillance satellite system consisting of two optical satellites and two radar satellites. 
	
	
 Japan also has a huge space power plant plan. It proposes to construct a gigantic solar power plant in space. The power generated will then converted to microwaves to be received by microwave receiver stations on earth. It is then converted back to electricity. In addition, it also plans to develop 12 satellites, a new generation of unmanned space lab, a space station supply system, and a space shuttle in the next 5 years. 
	
	
 In the past decade, despite its stagnating economy, Japan has still put space exploration as a top priority item in its space program. The Japanese aerospace industry has an ambitious plan to explore the planets. Its first target is the moon. Presently, Japan is implementing these plans in different stages. "Lunar A," one of the major projects, is aimed at delivering two penetrators on the moon to collect various data. One will be located near the landing site of Apollo 14 and the other near a ring-shaped mountain range on the dark side of the moon. "Selene," a project that has a $200 million price tag, will be launched in 2003. It is comprised of two lunar orbiters and a soft landing spacecraft. The soft-landing vehicle will be responsible for data collection and transmission back to earth for further processing. 
	
	
 Japan is determined to become a major power in aerospace. It is its national policy. It is also the path to becoming a major military power. Between 1970 and the end of 1999, Japan launched a total of 66 satellites. In terms of quantity, it is only behind the United States and Russia. In addition, it also takes part in the international space station project and has developed its own astronauts. Japan also has a relatively strong aerospace industry. In 1998, its revenue was 1.1 trillion yen, which represents a 10.5 percent market share worldwide. 
	
	
 After two years of stalemate, the Japanese government recently reorganized its aerospace development agency. Furthermore, it set priorities for the next five years. They include a spy satellite, a data relay satellite to transfer data between satellites, an unmanned universe lab system, a test satellite for communications and broadcasting, an observation satellite for environmental protection, "Kibo" the Japanese experimental module of the space station and its supply system, and the H2A carrier rocket to launch all the spacecraft mentioned earlier. By 2010, Japan will increase its global market share in aerospace to 17.4 percent. This is the goal set by the Japanese. 
	
	
	


	
Havana, January 12 (XINHUA) -- Cuba will not create obstacles to the U.S. decision to hold part of the Taliban and al-Qaeda war prisoners at the U.S. naval base of Guantanamo, the Cuban government said in a statement on Friday. 
	
	
 This is the first time that the Cuban government has expressed its position over the U.S. holding of the Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners in its territory. 
	
	
 Guantanamo is part of the Cuban territory, but the Cuban government will not create obstacles to the U.S. transfer of the war prisoners there, it said. 
	
	
 The Guantanamo Bay has been in U.S. hands since the Spanish- American War in 1898. The United States has refused to give up the facility, which is sealed from Cuba by a heavily guarded, 27- kilometer perimeter fence, despite Cuban objection to its continued existence. 
	
	
 In the statement, the Cuban government said the country would maintain close contacts with the U.S. military personnel in the naval base. 
	
	
 A first group of 20 war prisoners from Afghanistan arrived Friday afternoon at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo on the southeastern tip of Cuba, about 1,000 kilometers from the capital city of Havana.	


	
JAMMU, India, Jan 12 (AFP) -- Four Pakistani soldiers were killed Saturday in cross-border shelling in Kashmir, Indian officials said. 
	
	
 Lieutenant Colonel H.S. Oberoi said Pakistani troops had started shelling Indian border villages in the Krishna Ghati area of Poonch, 255 kilometres (158 miles) northwest of Jammu, Kashmir's winter capital. 
	
	
 Indian forces retaliated, killing four Pakistani soldiers and destroying six bunkers, he said. 
	
	
 He said there were no Indian casualties, although some homes, which had been deserted by villagers, were damaged. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Beijing, Jan. 12 (Yonhap) -- Criminals have been increasingly preying on Korean travellers and residents in China with the increase of exchanges between the two countries since the opening of diplomatic relations in 1992. Over the past three years, 15 Koreans were murdered, 177 were assaulted, 95 kidnapped or illegally confined, and 64 robbed, the Korean Embassy in Beijing said Saturday. The figures are feared to be higher since many cases were not reported, an embassy official said. The most frequent crimes involved the loss or theft of Korean passports, according to the official. Last year alone, 1,800 Korean passports were reported missing in China -- 1,000 in Shenyang, Liaoning Province, 400 in Beijing and 200 in Shanghai, the official said. Missing passports find their way to human traffickers, he said. 
	
	
 "About 90 percent of foreigners' missing passports are Korean's, and the missing passports are being used mostly for crimes like illegal entry, downgrading the nation's credibility in the international community," the official said. The number of crimes committed by Koreans has also been on the increase. Among the crimes are illegal trafficking or forgery of passports, drug production and transportation, smuggling, overstaying visas and drunk driving, the official said. Last year, 1.6 million Koreans travelled to China, up from 1.34 million in 2000, and the number of Korean students in China hit 16,000, more than any other country; Japan trailed with 15,000 students, the official said. hsj@yna.co.kr	



   US begins flying Afghan prisoners to Cuba

 



  WASHINGTON: The US military on Thursday began flying al-Qaeda 
and Taliban prisoners under heavy guard from Afghanistan to jail 
at the American Navy base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a military 
spokesman said.

  An Air Force C-17 cargo plane with 20 of at least 371 
"detainees" being held in Afghanistan departed Kandahar air base 
at about 11 am EST (1600 GMT), Marine Corps Maj. Brad Lowell, a 
spokesman for the US Central Command in Tampa, Florida, said.

  "There were 20" on the plane, Lowell said. He declined to say 
when the first prisoners might arrive at facilities surrounded 
by razor wire at the US Navy Base at Guantanamo Bay.

  US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told reporters that major 
security precautions were being taken in moving the prisoners, 
including hard-line, anti-Western followers of fugitive 
guerrilla leader Osama Bin Laden.

  Lowell said some small-arms fire was directed at US troops on 
the Kandahar base after the aircraft took off in the early 
evening Afghanistan time, but that the C-17 was not fired upon. 
No injuries were reported as a result of the gunfire, which came 
from outside the base, he added.

  "The aircraft had departed earlier when the Marines at the 
operating base received fire. At no time was that aircraft in 
any danger. It did not perform any evasive maneuvers," Lowell 
said.

  Marines dealing with Kandahar threat: "The Marines there are in 
the process of dealing with that threat. Our initial reports 
have no injuries."

  A US Marine spokesman in Kandahar told CNN late on Thursday that 
the gunfire came from snipers that penetrated the outer 
perimeter of the base and was not believed to be linked to the 
transfer of prisoners.

  "These were two isolated incidents, in that the detainee 
movement was something that we did not get official notification 
that we were going to do until this morning," Lt. James Jarvis 
said. "I don't believe that it is going to affect our transfer 
of detainees because, quite simply, we have adequate security 
for that."

  In Washington, US defense officials earlier said that 
unprecedented security -- including chains and possibly sedation 
and hoods -- might be used in transporting the prisoners, who 
include members of Bin Laden's al-Qaeda guerrilla network.

  One of the officials, who asked not to be identified, said that 
planning called for the prisoners, not yet charged with crimes, 
to be manacled together and outnumbered by specially trained 
guards carrying incapacitating stun guns.

  Others confirmed a report in USA Today that consideration was 
being given to tranquilizing some of the detainees and perhaps 
even covering their heads with hoods for flights that would take 
more than 12 hours.

  The human rights advocacy group Amnesty International expressed 
concern about reports that the prisoners "may be drugged, hooded 
and shackled," saying that they must be treated with full 
respect for international standards.

  "If restraints are necessary, they must be applied humanely, 
with adequate opportunity for the prisoner to move limbs, use 
the bathroom and eat and drink," the group said in a statement.

  Rumsfeld told reporters on Thursday that every effort would be 
made to secure hardline prisoners, many considered dangerous and 
possibly suicidal followers of Bin Laden. The al-Qaeda leaders 
is accused by Washington of masterminding the September 11 
suicide aircraft attacks on New York and Washington.

  "They (military officials) have been authorized and instructed 
to use appropriate restraints. They are fully aware that these 
are dangerous individuals," he said during a press conference 
with Australian Defence Minister Robert Hill.

  'Willing to kill themselves, others': "There are among these 
prisoners people who are perfectly willing to kill themselves 
and kill other people," Rumsfeld added. He provided no details 
except to say that the Pentagon had consulted experts on prisons 
and prisoners.

  The US military has so far taken control of more than 300 
prisoners at a base in Kandahar and others at Bagram air base 
near Kabul, at Mazar-i-Sharif and aboard the Navy helicopter 
assault ship USS Bataan in the northern Indian Ocean.

  The Pentagon refused to discuss details of the transfer, and 
Defence Department spokeswoman Victoria Clarke said on Thursday 
that no announcements would be made until the first detainees 
arrived at the secluded base, where a high-security, barbed 
wire-enclosed facility is being built.

  "What we have done all along is (said) that they are being 
treated humanely in accordance with the Geneva Convention," 
Clarke told reporters.

  The convention sets out the rights and responsibilities of war 
prisoners and their guards.

  Hundreds of US military police and Marine Corps reinforcements 
have been flown to the "Gitmo" base, as it is called, in Cuba 
and prisoners will be held inside a compound ringed by two 
fences topped with razor wire.

  For most of the day they will be held in small cells with a 
concrete floor and chain-link walls, with spotlights on at 
night.

  It was not known if American John Walker, captured fighting with 
Bin Laden's now vanquished protectors the Taliban, would be 
among those brought to Guantanamo.

  The Defence Department has not announced any decision on how 
many of the detainees will be transferred or how many, if any, 
might face military courts martial authorized by President 
George W Bush in the wake of the September attacks.

  Under close scrutiny from civil rights groups, Rumsfeld has been 
studying how such trials could be held while protecting the 
rights of any defendants and keeping tight security over the US 
war on terrorism declared by Bush after the attacks.



Copyright @ 2001 Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved. |


   Mugabe confident of victory in historic Zimbabwe vote

 



  HARARE-Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe predicted victory 
Saturday as he cast his ballots in presidential and local 
elections at a primary school in Harare's working-class suburb 
of Highfield.

  Asked if he would accept the results of the hotly contested 
election, Mugabe said: "I will accept it, more than accept it 
because I will have won."

  The 78-year-old former guerrilla leader, who has governed since 
independence in 1980, took another swipe at the former colonial 
power Britain and other western nations, which he said have 
prejudged the vote.

  "They don't want the president of Zimbabwe to remain the 
president of Zimbabwe," he told reporters outside the school.

  Mugabe has faced widespread criticism and sanctions from the 
European Union and the United States over alleged rights 
violations and manipulation of the election process.

  Tinkering has left voting procedures so confusing in Harare that 
even Mugabe and his top aides appeared unsure of where the 
president was to vote.

  Mugabe was clearly expected to turn up at Mhofu School in 
Highfield, where state television had a truck posted and had 
been broadcasting live since polls opened early Saturday.

  Several of Mugabe's ministers and senior aides were also on hand 
to see their leader cast his ballot, as well as a throng of 
reporters and camera operators.

  But it turned out the president would perform his civic duty 
instead at Kudzanai School, also in Highfield. Mugabe had to 
vote at that particular ward in order to be able to cast ballots 
both for president and for mayor in Harare, which is holding the 
two elections simultaneously.

  The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) complained 
that the set-up was deliberately confusing in a ploy to 
discourage the urban vote, which is thought to favor Mugabe's 
challenger Morgan Tsvangirai. -AFP

  
@ Pakistan Observer 1998-2001




   Midweek: Wheel turns with a vengeance for the Taliban

 



  AS Camp X-ray in Cuba's Guantanamo Bay continues to fill with 
Muslim militants who had sworn to die rather than be captured, 
even the little we see of their situation makes it clear they're 
in hell.

  Many in the outside world are disturbed by conditions in 
"Gitmo". The United States dismisses such concerns: it's a 
prison, after all; remember the Black Hole of Mazar-iSharif.

  Anxiety arises, however, from the sense that the cultural gulf 
between these prisoners and their captors is so vast that the 
latter genuinely do not see how a diet of peanut butter and 
bagel chips can be considered cruel and inhuman punishment.

  The suffering of these particular prisoners is, indeed, 
particularly great. Their prayers are now led by a victorious 
enemy soldier - what could be worse? Quite a lot, as it happens. 
Crouched in their cages in Cuba, they must know that back in 
Afghanistan TVs are glowing, Bollywood is bellowing, men are 
shaving, women unveiling and sending their daughters to school.

  One can feel sorry for the hapless vanquished now on that limbo 
rock in the Caribbean, and hope that some might follow the 
threads of their tortured consciences back out of the labyrinth, 
having duly met and been eaten by the Minotaur.

  Still, it might be doubly difficult for the Afghans among them 
ever to go back, if the new administration of their home country 
goes ahead with rebuilding the Buddhas of Bamiyan for their 
potential as a tourist attraction.

  It's been almost a year since the Taliban blew up those 
monumental 1,500-year-old sandstone statues in northcentral 
Afghanistan, at which time the only way for the rest of us to 
handle the insult to human sensibilities was to emulate the 
Gautama Buddha himself, and profess relief.

  Those statues probably hadn't been a good likeness of him, 
anyway. His clothes probably never looked quite like that - the 
statues' fashion sense had been clearly influenced by the 
Greeks, what with Alexander the Great having passed through on 
his way to giving up with India.

  As for likenesses, the Buddha said on his deathbed: "All 
composite things arise and decline. Work out your salvation with 
diligence." So he is unlikely to have been enamoured of statues.

  Which, one supposes, was indeed the motivation of those who blew 
away those statues to leave two giant holes in the Afghan 
landscape, in the process paying unthinking tribute to some of 
the Buddha's subtlest and most profound teachings on the nature 
of impermanence and the perils of delusion.

  Besides, those statues had been defaced long before they were 
finally reduced to rubble. One of them had lost not just its 
face but its entire head. The other had a big hole in its 
crotch, at which someone had launched a rocketpropelled grenade 
back in '98.

  Judging by its demeanour, the statue hadn't felt a thing. But 
the Taliban commander who aimed that RPG was certainly ascribing 
human characteristics to a lump of stone. Which was most 
disturbing of all, because such was the very sin that rocket was 
supposedly intended to expunge.

  So those poor bullet-scarred statues made everyone look sad and 
foolish, and their final immolation a year ago put them out of 
their misery, so to speak.

  Even at the time, though, this was a stretch for even the most 
ardent apologist. The veil of compassion was hardly elastic 
enough to pull over those two great big holes in the earth.

  That was the moment at which the fabric of compassion tore, and 
worlds cracked apart; when the contrast and conflict of 
civilisational values became so great as to remove any sense of 
common ground - even on which to do battle. On both sides of the 
divide after that gratuitously destructive event, anything went. 
And did, spectacularly.

  Of all the unconscionable things the Taliban did to Afghan 
society in the six years of their reign, their demolition of the 
Buddhas of Bamiyan last March cleaved the rift between 
civilisations that was rammed wide open by hijacked aircraft 
over America just six months later, and which the US has since 
cauterised with the molten metal of its military might.

  And so it has come ironically to pass that, one year on, a new 
Afghan order is dreaming of rebuilding those statues, while 
what's left of the Taliban now sits in cells a world away, 
beardless, bald and clad in saffron.


Copyright @ The New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad, Balai 
Berita 31, Jalan Riong, 59100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.


China criticizes US human rights report

 



  BEIJING - China issued its annual report on human rights in the 
United States on Monday, accusing Washington of turning a blind 
eye to abuses in its own land while criticizing other countries 
for theirs.

  The report by the Information Office of the State Council, 
China's Cabinet, listed evidence of police abuses, poverty, 
racial discrimination and lack of personal safety in the United 
States, the official Xinhua news agency said.

  It also accused Washington of "wantonly infringing" on the 
sovereignty of other nations through military operations and 
stationing US forces overseas, Xinhua said.

  The report also slammed US President George W. Bush's 
administration for withdrawing from the Kyoto Protocol on 
cutting greenhouse gases.

  China releases the report every year in response to a US State 
Department report on global human rights conditions, which 
usually accuses China of widespread abuses. The US report came 
out last week.

  "Once again the United States, assuming the role of `world judge 
of human rights' has distorted human rights conditions in many 
countries and regions in the world, including China, and accused 
them of human rights violations, all the while turning a blind 
eye to its own human rights-related problems," the Chinese 
report said.



Copyright (c) 2001 The Manila Times |




U.S. wants Kyoto dropped from U.N. meet agenda

 



  
Tadayoshi Sakaguchi Yomiuri Shimbun Correspondent

  The United States, having pulled out of the Kyoto Protocol, is 
now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as 
one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn 
up at the United Nations.

  The United States has demanded that wording on bringing the 
Kyoto Protocol on global warming into effect in 2002 be excluded 
from the implementation documentation of a global environmental 
agenda being drawn up at the third session of the preparatory 
meeting of the U.N. Conference on Environment and Development 
(UNCED), sources said Thursday.

  The Kyoto pact grew out of the Conference of the Parties (COP) 
to the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change, which itself 
came out of UNCED.

  The United States has pulled out of the protocol, which obliges 
developed countries to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and 
announced in February a voluntary U.S. plan to slow the growth 
of global warming gasses.

  The latest move, a sign that the United States is stiffening in 
its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other 
countries, including those in the European Union as well as 
Japan, which want an early implentation of the Kyoto protocol.

  The implementation documents, being drawn up at an 
intergovernmental meeting at U.N. headquarters in New York, are 
based on a chairman's paper announced at the second session of 
the preparatory meeting in January. It states how to implement 
Agenda 21--a U.N. global action program for environmental 
restoration, preservation and social development.

  The chairman's paper stated that the countries will do their 
best to ensure 1997 Kyoto Protocol is put into effect in 2002 to 
curb global warming. It also stated developed countries would 
give financial and technical support to those countries 
vulnerable to climate change, such as island nations, and 
alleviate the global warming's impact by introducing devices 
such as satellite observation systems to monitor rising sea 
levels.

  The U.S. government delegation, however, demanded that these 
statements in the chairman's paper be reworded to say that 
countries would tackle climate change in line with the schedule 
agreed upon at COP7 (the seventh session of COP), which mapped 
out implementation of the Kyoto Protocol at an appropriate time.

  Furthermore, concerning assistance to island countries, although 
the U.S. delegation agreed to establish satellite observation 
systems, it demanded that wording about the impact of global 
warming be deleted. The delegation said that a causal relation 
between unusual climatic phenomena and greenhouse gas emissions 
has not been proved.

  The general opinion among other developed countries, however, is 
that the scientific data is commonly interpreted as linking 
droughts, floods and rising tides to global warming.

  
===

  
Cabinet OK's ratification draft

  The Cabinet endorsed for Diet approval a bill for ratification 
of the Kyoto Protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to 
fight global warming. The bill was submitted to the Diet later 
that day.

  In preparation for ratification, the government has already 
adopted a framework that would achieve the protocol's target on 
greenhouse gas emissions. After the Diet ratifies the protocol, 
work will begin on cutting gas emissions.

  
Copyright 2002 The Yomiuri Shimbun


   Geneva Convention applies to Taliban, not Al Qaeda: US

 



  WASHINGTON, Feb 7: The White House on Thursday declared that the 
Geneva Convention applies to Taliban forces in the Afghanistan 
phase of the war on terrorism, but not to Osama bin Laden's Al 
Qaeda followers.

  "President Bush today has decided that the Geneva Convention 
will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda 
international terrorists," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer told 
reporters.

  The move comes after fevered criticism - including from key US 
allies - stemming from alleged mistreatment of Taliban and Al 
Qaeda detainees the United States is holding at "Camp X-Ray" in 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

  "It will not change their material life on a day-to-day basis: 
they will continue to be treated well because that's what the 
United States does," said Fleischer, who noted neither group 
would be granted prisoner of war status. And, "Al Qaeda is an 
international terrorist group and cannot be considered a state 
party to the Geneva Convention. Its members therefore are not 
covered," by the accord, said the spokesman.

  DETAINEES ARRIVE IN CUBA: A new group of 28 prisoners captured 
in Afghanistan arrived by air on Thursday, bringing the total 
number of detainees to 186.

  Six of the detainees were transported on stretchers aboard the 
C-141 cargo flight that left Kandahar, Afghanistan on Wednesday 
for the 25-hour flight.

  Earlier on Wednesday, the US military resumed controversial 
flights of heavily guarded Al Qaeda and Taliban captives from 
Afghanistan to a naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a senior US 
official said.

  The official, who asked not to be identified, told newsmen that 
the first flight of captives in more than two weeks had left 
Afghanistan late on Wednesday and was to arrive at the isolated 
prison camp late on Thursday. The official did not say how many 
prisoners were on the flight.

  Flights carrying up to 30 of what the Pentagon calls "detainees" 
were suspended on Jan 23 by defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld 
pending expansion of outdoor jail facilities at the American 
base.

  A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to 
classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and 
interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been 
treated properly under the Geneva Convention.

  None has yet been charged with a crime, but Washington has 
maintained that the prisoners are being treated humanely.

  The shackled and blindfolded captives are being flown to Cuba 
from Kandahar in southern Afghanistan under tight guard and are 
being housed at the base in 8-by-8-foot cage-like outdoor cells.

  The detainees at "Gitmo," as US soldiers call the base, are of 
various nationalities. Saudi officials have said that 100 are 
from the Gulf kingdom and have demanded they be returned to face 
justice at home.

  Bush said last week he was willing to consider Saudi Arabia's 
request on a case-by-case basis but U.S. officials doubted it 
would happen any time soon.-AFP/Reuters



@ The DAWN Group of Newspapers, 2002


   Mugabe victory leaves West in tatters

 



  HARARE: Western countries were left frustrated and impotent 
after Robert Mugabe formally declared that he had overwhelmingly 
won Zimbabwe's presidential election.

  The extent to which Mugabe outmanoeuvred the west was made clear 
when southern African countries issued a surprise statement 
declaring the conduct of the election free and fair. The move is 
almost certain to scupper any hope of the Commonwealth 
suspending Zimbabwe next week.

  At the weekend the European Union, prodded by Britain, is 
planning to extend the range of sanctions against Zimbabwe, 
targeting more members of the leadership. Earlier this year, the 
EU imposed a travel ban on Mugabe and 19 members of his regime 
and froze their overseas assets. But there were no illusions in 
Britain or elsewhere in Europe that the measures will have any 
real leverage in Harare.

  The Zimbabwe registrar-general, Tobaiwa Mudede, declared that 
Mugabe had won a fifth term in office after the results from all 
120 constituencies were returned. He said Mugabe had won 
1,685,212 votes against 1,258,401 for challenger Morgan 
Tsvangirai, leader of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC).

  "We foresaw electoral fraud but not daylight robbery," 
Tsvangirai said. "We find ourselves unable to endorse the 
purported election of President Robert Mugabe as Zimbabwe's 
president in this election. It's the biggest election fraud I've 
witnessed in my life."

  The MDC leader said the onus was on "the people" to lead the 
way, whether passively or not. "We seek no confrontation with 
the state because that's what they want. But the people 
themselves have to decide what action to take," he said.

  In the Harare townships where people stood in line for two days 
to vote in the belief that they were consigning Mugabe to 
history, angry residents looked to Tsvangirai to confront the 
government.

  "We need Tsvangirai to tell Mugabe he cannot steal this 
election," said Noel Gukuta, a youthful MDC voter. "The soldiers 
have guns so we cannot fight him but we can make sure he cannot 
rule us. We must strike, we must march, we must show that we are 
not goats." The country took the news of Mugabe's victory with 
no great celebrations or protests.

  The government, sensing murmurs about revolt, put the army on 
full alert, deployed troops in key townships and the police set 
up roadblocks on the main roads into Harare to stop and search 
vehicles for weapons.

  The UK foreign secretary, Jack Straw, said: "For months the 
government of Zimbabwe has conducted a systematic campaign of 
violence and intimidation, designed to achieve an outcome - 
power at all costs."

  A senior state department official in Washington later said: 
"We're considering further steps, given all the things that 
happened before and during the elections." Apart from the 
result, the main jolt yesterday was that election observers from 
South Africa, Nigeria and Namibia effectively endorsed the 
election.

  "It is our considered view that the election was free and fair 
and reflects the wishes of the people of Zimbabwe," Namibia's 
observer team said in a statement, adding that the poll was 
"watertight, without room for rigging".

  The South African team described the election as "legitimate" 
while the Nigerian observers said they had seen nothing that 
threatened the integrity of the poll.

  The Commonwealth trio to decide on action next week is made up 
of Australia, which will back suspension, the South African 
leader, Thabo Mbeki, and the Nigerian president, Olusegun 
Obasanjo. In Zimbabwe the leadership of the congress of trade 
unions is considering calling a two-day general strike to test 
whether there would be popular support for a longer protest, and 
various civil rights groups are meeting today to discuss mass 
civil disobedience. The MDC's lawyers are also studying the 
possibility of legal action.

  In the final results, Mugabe made a net gain of votes compared 
with the 2000 parliamentary election in every province in the 
country. While there was evidence of vote tampering in some 
areas, most of the ballots dropped into the box with a cross by 
Mugabe's name were not fraudulent. There has been no criticism 
of the count.

  "This is a runaway victory," said the justice minister, Patrick 
Chinamasa. "It was won on the issue of the land."-Dawn/The 
Guardian News Service.



@ The DAWN Group of Newspapers, 2002




   US human rights report termed inaccurate

 



  ISLAMABAD, March 5: The government on Tuesday rejected the US 
State Department Report on human rights as "factually inaccurate 
and unwarranted" adding that it reflected tendency of some 
states to sit in judgment on others.

  "The reports fails to acknowledge the important policy measures 
and initiatives by the government of Pakistan to promote and 
protect human rights," said a statement issued by Foreign Office 
spokesman in which the report was termed as factually inaccurate 
and unwarranted. It pointed out that all the goals set at an 
April 2000 human rights conference had been achieved, which it 
added had been ignored by the report.

  Enlisting these initiatives, it recalled that these include 
promulgation of the Juvenile Justice System Ordinance, the 
establishment of a permanent commission on the status of women, 
police and jail reforms, national policy and plan of action for 
elimination of child labour and establishment of a fund for 
rehabilitation of working children.

  The government, it added, has amended Pakistan Citizenship Act 
of 1951 to enable women of Pakistani descent to claim Pakistani 
nationality for their children born to foreign husbands. A mass 
awareness campaign was launched as part of the observance of the 
Year 2000 as the year of Human Rights and Human Dignity, it 
added.

  In addition, it said, Pakistan also ratified ILO Conventions 100 
on equal remuneration and 182 on the elimination of worst forms 
of child labour. It signed the Optional Protocols to Convention 
on the Rights of Child. Recently the system of joint electorates 
has been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority 
communities, it said. Despite these developments, the report 
states "the government's human rights record remained poor."

  "This is unacceptable and a gross misstatement of the facts. The 
government of Pakistan therefore, feels constrained to reject 
the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the tendency of 
some states to sit in judgment over others."

  "The cause of human rights would be better served if all states, 
in a spirit of cooperation and understanding address the 
problems they face in promoting and protecting human rights," it 
said.



@ The DAWN Group of Newspapers, 2002



	
GATUNA, Rwanda, July 6 (AFP) - President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni began talks here Friday in a bid to mend soured relations between their neighbouring countries. 
	
	
 The two heads of state met under an canvas awning set up for the occasion a few hundred metres (yards) from the Gatuna border post, an AFP correspondent reported. 
	
	
 The formerly close allies fell out in 1999, the year after each sent troops to back rebel movements in the neighbouring Democratic Republic of Congo, when mounting rivalry lead to violent clashes between their own armies there. 
	
	
 Museveni and Kagame have met three times since the fighting broke out in the DRC city of Kisangani, the main town in the northeast of the country, but without patching up their differences. 
	
	
 In March, Uganda declared Rwanda a hostile nation because of tensions arising from Kigali's alleged support for a rival to Museveni in a presidential election. 
	
	
 The two countries have each accused the other of backing dissidents. 
	
	
	



   US human rights report invites scorn

 


Author:     CHIDANAND RAJGHATTA - TIMES NEWS NETWORK [ TUESDAY, MARCH 05, 2002 1:21:47 PM ]

  WASHINGTON: Unprecedented scepticism and scorn accompanied the 
release by the United States on Monday of its annual human 
rights report amid charges of hypocrisy and double standards 
arising from the ongoing war on terrorism.

  Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as 
Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a 
briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights 
Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the 
Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless 
ritual.

  Amid widespread domestic criticism over curtailment of civil 
liberties, US officials laboured to convince a disbelieving 
press corps that the exercise was evenhanded. The report does 
not look at the state of human rights in the US itself because, 
in the words of one official, "that wouldn't be fair."

  The individual country reports is a compendium of alleged human 
rights violations culled from various sources, mostly the local 
media. The report on India, for instance, is more than 100 pages 
long and painstakingly lists incidents of rights violation 
across the country both by the government and terrorist, 
militant, and subversive groups.

  The human rights report exercise was originally linked to US 
foreign assistance, but increasingly many countries are taking 
it less seriously in the face of Washington glossing over the 
record of its so-called allies. While secular and democratic 
countries such as India merit a litany, a country like Saudi 
Arabia, one of the least free countries in the world, was turned 
over in 32 pages. The US has shown no inclination to punish 
allies it bankrolls such as Egypt and Turkey while berating 
countries less relevant to it.

  Critics in the media sharply questioned such duplicity at 
Monday's briefing as Lorne Cramer, US Assistant Secretary for 
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labour, struggled to defend 
American policy. Excerpts from the briefing:

  Question: Just give us a couple examples what you're doing in 
Saudi Arabia, Uzbekistan, Egypt.

  Assistant Secretary Craner: I'll throw out a few examples. In 
Uzbekistan, we're undertaking a programme to help a variety of 
civil society groups around the country come together to 
formulate future plans. In Kyrgyzstan, we talk about the press 
in Kyrgyzstan, and we're going to help fund an independent 
printing press there. Those are just two examples that are 
coming out of my office.

  
Q: What about Saudi Arabia?

  
Craner: We're getting there.

  Q: Lorne, I want to follow up on Saudi Arabia. I'm a little bit 
surprised by your glib answer. With the demise of the Taliban, 
there is arguably no government in the world that has as bad a 
human rights record as Saudi Arabia does. What is the United 
States doing to actively promote democracy and human rights with 
Saudi Arabia?

  Craner: Well, I would say two things. Number one, I disagree 
that it's the worst violator.

  
Q: Who is the worst violator?

  Craner: I would place Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a 
couple of other countries into that category.

  Q: You didn't answer my question. What is it that we are doing 
in Saudi Arabia to promote that greater voice and greater 
democratic participation?

  Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do 
that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world, 
in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more 
democratic.

  Q: At what levels are we talking? I mean, there's nothing that's 
visible at all to us in the outside world.

  Craner: Okay. I would look at the last paragraph, the last 
couple paragraphs, of the President's State of the Union 
Address.

  Q: But I heard this before. I'm asking specifically about one 
country.

  
Craner: Yes. What are you asking?

  
Q: I'm asking what it is the United States is doing.

  Craner: And I think I've outlined that. We're talking to them at 
many levels about these issues in their country. We're talking 
to a lot of people across the Arab and Muslim world about these 
issues in their countries and about how they can serve as 
examples to others.

  Q: Can I go back to Robin's question on Saudi Arabia? Can you 
point to any kind of tangible things? And when you say we're 
talking to the Government of Saudi Arabia, are we talking to 
them about starting such programs up, or are we just simply 
mentioning that they have a human rights problem?

  Craner: Can I talk about tangible advances in particular 
countries? There are things I would point to. Pakistan's 
decision to eliminate the requirement that religious minorities 
be elected separately from the mainstream electoral system.

  
Q: Is that something we've talked to the Saudis about?

  
Craner: They don't have elections.

  Q: (Inaudible) before -- that previous administrations have done 
before on Saudi Arabia. We've been talking for years with the 
Saudis. What's different?

  
Craner: How do you know that?

  Q: Because other administrations told us that they've talked to 
the Saudis about human rights and democracy issues, 
participation in women's rights and all of it.

  Craner: Well, yeah, I understand. Other administrations have 
talked about these issues. I hope you're gong to see more of an 
effect from this administration.

  
Q: But what is it -- that doesn't answer the question.

  
Craner: What is different currently?

  Q: What's different from what this administration is saying to 
them than previous administrations have said to them?

  Craner: You'll have to judge by the outcome. You'll have to see 
how we do it differently.

  Q: Why can't you give us some indication? What's the big secret? 
You talk about what we're doing tangibly in every other country 
but Saudi Arabia.

  
Craner: Because I don't yet know the effect in Saudi Arabia.



Copyright @ 2001 Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved. |




   Mugabe says he is wide awake for polls

 


Author:     AP [ TUESDAY, MARCH 05, 2002 3:19:14 PM ]

  HARARE, Zimbabwe: A defiant President Robert Mugabe said his 
party had lost ground to the opposition through complacency, but 
would win this weekend's presidential elections anyway, state 
radio reported on Tuesday.

  "We are now wide awake," Mugabe said at a rally Monday. "We 
won't let the (Movement for Democratic Change) win."

  Mugabe described the opposition as "a donkey being controlled by 
the British," the former colonial power.

  The fledgling MDC won 57 of 120 elected seats in June 2000 
parliamentary elections as Mugabe's popularity plunged amid 
economic devastation and chaos.

  The U.S. State Department released a human rights report on 
Zimbabwe Monday that accused the government of extrajudicial 
killings, undermining the independence of the judiciary and 
waging a "systematic campaign of violence targeting supporters 
and potential supporters of the opposition."

  Security forces tortured opponents, ruling party militants 
abducted people, and police arrested opposition supporters who 
were themselves the victims of crimes. Freedom of the press and 
freedom of assembly were also severely restricted, the report 
said.

  In his speech on Monday, Mugabe thanked African leaders for 
refusing to buckle to pressure to suspend Zimbabwe from the 
Commonwealth of Britain and its former territories at a summit 
of the 54-nation grouping in Australia.

  Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand demanded the 
suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth to protest 
state-sponsored violence and human rights abuses against the 
opposition.

  Mugabe said the decision to defer the possible suspension until 
Commonwealth observers report back on the election was "a 
victory against Britain's attempts to introduce a new form of 
apartheid" to serve Western interests in developing countries.

  Tendai Biti, the MDC's foreign affairs spokesman, said Mugabe 
was trying to hide his policies of violence and intimidation 
behind his rift with Britain.

  "It is not a Zimbabwe-Britain crisis. Our people are being 
brutalised by fellow black Zimbabweans. This is the issue we 
would want our African brothers to have understood," he said.

  African leaders closed ranks at the Commonwealth summit out of 
fear for their own power, he said.

  "The problems of human rights and good governance are mirrored 
in their countries," Biti said.

  The state-run Herald newspaper, a government mouthpiece, said 
Tuesday British Prime Minister Tony Blair had showed personal 
arrogance, an obsession with Mugabe and "the shallowness of his 
commitment to democracy."

  The election on Saturday and Sunday presents the strongest-ever 
challenge to Mugabe's rule.

  The opposition accuses the government of using violence, 
intimidation and new security laws to cow its voters and to 
prevent it from effectively campaigning.

  Foreign diplomats based in Harare said Monday police prevented 
them from finishing a meeting on Monday with MDC leader Morgan 
Tsvangirai.

  Police declared the meeting with about 35 ambassadors and 
members of their staffs illegal under new security laws 
requiring police permission for political gatherings. Tsvangirai 
called the meeting to discuss food shortages gripping Zimbabwe 
and measures his party was considering to combat them, diplomats 
said.

  
Police had no immediate comment.

  State radio also reported Monday that three opposition lawmakers 
tried to bribe Zimbabwe's air force commander to help calm 
security forces if Mugabe were removed. Opposition officials 
said the claim was part of a government smear campaign.

  Foreign governments have pressed Mugabe to restore the rule of 
law. The president promised he would, but the violence has 
escalated, with dozens killed in February.



Copyright @ 2001 Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved. |




Pakistan rejects US human rights report

 



  ISLAMABAD - Pakistan Tuesday slated US State Department's 
country report on human rights situation in Pakistan and 
labelled it "factually inaccurate and unwarranted."

  "The report fails to acknowledge the important policy measures 
and initiatives by the Government of Pakistan to promote and 
protect human rights," a Foreign Office spokesman said.

  The spokesman said that the US report ignored the implementation 
of almost all initiatives announced and set at an April 2000 
human rights conference.

  These initiatives included the promulgation of the Juvenile 
Justice System Ordinance, the establishment of a Permanent 
Commission on the Status of Women, police and jail reforms, 
national policy and Plan of Action for elimination of child 
labour and establishment of a fund for rehabilitation of working 
children.

  The spokesman said: "The Government has amended Pakistan 
Citizenship Act of 1951 to enable women of Pakistani descent to 
claim Pakistani nationality for their children born to foreign 
husbands. A mass awareness campaign was launched as part of the 
observance of the Year 2000 as the Year of Human Rights and 
Human Dignity."

  "Pakistan also ratified ILO Conventions 100 on equal 
remuneration and 182 on the elimination of worst forms of child 
labour. It signed the Optional Protocols to Convention on the 
Rights of Child. Recently, the system of joint electorates has 
been introduced respecting the wishes of the minority 
communities," the spokesman said.

  The spokesman said that despite these developments, the report 
states `the Govt's human rights record remained poor'. "This is 
unacceptable and a gross misstatement of facts," the spokesman 
said.

  "The Government of Pakistan, therefore, feels constrained to 
reject the assessment of the report about Pakistan, and the 
tendency of some states to sit in judgement over others. The 
cause of human rights would be better served if all states, in a 
spirit of cooperation and understanding, address the problems 
they face in promoting and protecting human rights."

  He said that the Government of Pakistan remains committed to 
promoting and protecting human rights and will welcome the 
assistance of friendly countries towards that end.




Britain's Prescott Pushes for Kyoto Pact Backing

 



  VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S. 
support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an 
international conference on business and the environment on 
Friday.

  Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto 
agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on 
the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary 
emission-reduction targets.

  "This is the world's best chance of dealing with a very serious 
threat to it," Prescott told delegates from 65 nations at the 
Globe 2002 conference in Vancouver that ended on Friday.

  Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the 
United States until recently was critical of the science that 
led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains 
optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other 
signatory nations would converge.

  The Kyoto Protocol calls on countries to reduce emissions of 
so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are 
blamed by many scientists for global warming, to pre-1990 levels 
by 2012.

  Named for the Japanese city where it was approved, the pact was 
signed by 84 countries, including the United States and Canada. 
Fifty-five countries responsible for 55 percent of emissions in 
1990 must ratify it for it to take effect. Forty-nine countries 
had done so as of mid-March, according to the United Nations.

  Europe's environment ministers have agreed that all 15 EU 
nations should adhere to the Kyoto Protocol. Ratification could 
win support at an EU summit later this month in Barcelona, 
Spain. The process is expected to be completed by June 1.

  Prescott said the British program aims to cut emissions by 20 
percent, and the country is now half way to that goal.

  The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will 
hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of 
the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels 
and destruction of various plants and animal species.

  Canada is among the countries that have pledged to ratify the 
accord. Canada's Environmental Minister, David Anderson, is 
under pressure from the country's energy producers to follow the 
U.S. position.

  Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that 
financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the 
potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."

  A study by the Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters Association 
said the accord would cost the Canadian economy up to C$40 
billion by 2010, but a Dutch report released earlier this week 
said it would only be C$727 million.

  "At the least the difference between some estimates clearly 
shows a great deal more talking and assessment is needed," 
Reuters quoted Prescott as telling the delegates, who 
represented both business and environmental groups.


Elaborating on the 'axis of evil'

 



  PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush's National Security Adviser Condoleezza 
Rice has recently "defined" the context and scope of the term 
"axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address 
a few weeks ago to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea. The 
criteria set by Rice are the following: the three countries in 
question are repressive and grave human rights violators, and 
aggressively seeking weapons of mass destruction.

  By all conservative estimates, there are scores of other 
countries which can easily qualify as repressive and violating 
human rights. The rule, as far as human rights are concerned, is 
that every nation which does not enjoy pluralistic democracy is 
violating human rights and is therefore oppressive. There are 
many countries in the world that hardly qualify as pluralistic 
democracies. On this count, the national security adviser may 
have erred.

  As for her wording regarding acquisition of weapons, what is 
particularly noteworthy is the use of the words "aggressively 
seeking" nuclear, biological or chemical weapons. In other 
words, countries which are seeking or developing such arsenal at 
a slow pace do not seem to come within the scope of the "axis of 
evil". One can name more than a dozen countries which are 
contemplating the acquisition of mass destruction weapons at one 
speed or another. All other countries which are seemingly 
refraining from acquiring such weapons are doing so not so much 
to escape being branded as "evil" but rather because they have 
neither the knowledge nor the money to join the "nuclear club".

  Come to think of it, acquiring weapons of mass destruction per 
se may not be a correct basis for judging whether a nation is 
good or evil. The mere development or possession of mass 
destruction weapons is not in itself a reason to label a state 
as evildoer. After all, the US is the first nation to have 
developed nuclear weapons. Moreover, the US is the first and 
only nation ever to deploy such weapons.

  Perhaps the real criterion in this context is whether the 
nuclear country is democratic in every sense of the word.

  Washington seems to be particularly disturbed and feel that its 
own national security is being threatened only when the nations 
which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or 
repressive, irrespective of the pace of amassing weaponry. This 
is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that 
democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it 
comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction. If this is 
the case, Rice could have elaborated more precise criteria for 
membership in the "axis of evil," by establishing more clearly 
the connection between the nature of the regime and the 
acquisition of weapons of mass destruction.


Club Fed And Our Invisible Troops

 


 
 
DefenseWatch (sftt.org) 
January 30, 2002 
Club Fed And Our Invisible Troops 
By David H. Hackworth

  The brouhaha created by breast-beating human-rights groups over 
our military's treatment of the terrorist scuzz now vacationing 
at the Pentagon's recently opened Cuban Club Fed - eagerly aided 
and abetted by a press too prone to the sensational - is 
something else. These bleeding hearts claim we're brutalizing 
the captives by forcing them to wear orange jumpsuits, sleep on 
mats, exercise daily, shower frequently and eat special food.

  My buddy, a Connecticut cop, finds the protests fascinating. He 
says, "I'm having a lot of trouble concentrating on my job 
because of the prisoners at Guantanamo."

  Then, with a twinkle in his eyes, he adds: "Are they getting 
enough sleep, the right diet, enough prayer time? We have to 
keep them happy and healthy. They only want to murder all of us 
the first chance they get."

  Amen. Their perp pal responsible for the first World Trade 
Center attack jabbed a sharpened comb into a guard's eye while 
he was in the pokey. This time around, they've already bitten 
one of the soldiers guarding them and threatened to kill anybody 
else who gets too close. After all, these are the folks who 
spent their leisure time back in Afghanistan skinning captives 
alive - when they weren't playing soccer with their heads.

  
Think of them as kamikaze killers looking for an edge.

  However you want to categorize these creeps - who are living a 
lot better at Club Fed than they ever did in the caves of Tora 
Bora - Geneva Convention rules are for uniformed soldiers, not 
for skyjackers who fly commercial planes filled with moms and 
dads into office buildings manned by civilians operating 
computers, or for zealots who kill Arab women because they drive 
a car or don't cover their faces. Al-Qaeda is a terrorist 
organization, not a state, and its crazies wear street gear and 
operate disguised as civilians. Terrorists dressed to pass like 
these were often shot right on the spot during World War II and 
the Korean War.

  I'm personally offended that none of the whistle-blowers seems 
to give a damn about the welfare or safety of our sons and 
daughters guarding these thugs. Have you read any stories about 
the dangers they face? Have any of our politicians bothered to 
inspect our kids' living conditions when they've jetted into 
Gitmo to check out the terrorists' treatment and pick up some 
tube time?

  Had anyone checked, they would have discovered that our U.S. 
Army Military Police guarding the terrorists think the prisoners 
are being treated a lot better than they are. They're not 
pleased that the brass, the lawmakers and the press are more 
interested in the well-being of the detainees than the soldiers 
guarding them, and that they might as well be invisible.

  Here's what our soldiers from the Army's 401st MP Company out of 
Fort Hood, Texas, who are the main monster-watchers, are saying:

  "We live like crap down here with no extra pay or tax break, and 
we feel that no one up above gives a rat's ass about us," a 
sergeant says. "Our officers are more concerned with doing 
Pentagon damage control concerning the detainees than looking 
after the troops."

  "The detainees sleep on soft mats on a nice surfaced floor while 
we sleep on cots inside tents with dirt floors. They get four 
hot meals a day, fresh fruit, regular issues of snacks such as 
sunflower seeds, regular clean clothes laundered by the Marine 
supply system," says another soldier. "We get canned food and 
MREs, canned fruit. We buy our own snacks and do our own 
laundry."

  "The Marine general here says we can have a beer when off duty, 
but our Army leadership is running so scared that it set a 
no-drinking policy," says another troop. "We are responsible 
enough to secure the prisoners, but not enough to have a beer."

  "The Red Cross put us in a very dangerous situation with their 
demands, and sadly our leadership went along with it," a soldier 
said. "We've been told to lie to Marine inspectors over 
standards and requirements. The Marines are right, the Army's 
wrong, and we're stuck in the middle."

  Maybe someday, do-gooders, editors, lawmakers and senior Army 
leaders will remember our soldiers are human beings with human 
rights, too, and get their side of the story. Charity should 
begin at home.


Stretching The Case For Inhumanity

 


Washington Times 
February 6, 2002 
Pg. 15

  
Stretching The Case For Inhumanity

  
Terrorist thugs at Gitmo don't deserve their treatment

  
By Vito Fossella

  Having had the opportunity to tour Camp X-Ray last week, I offer 
America's critics a simple piece of advice: Get a life.

  The chronic complainers are outraged by, of all things, the 
treatment of the captured Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists being 
detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. They have absurdly criticized 
as "inhumane" the decision to temporarily place prison suits, 
handcuffs and blindfolds on the terrorists during transfer to 
protect the military personnel guarding them. They have even 
demanded upgraded accommodations, seemingly forgetting that 
these are the leaders of a worldwide terrorist organization who 
have repeatedly vowed to kill innocent Americans through war or 
terror.

  Far from being treated inhumanely, the al Qaeda and the Taliban 
terrorists are better fed, better clothed and better cared for 
than they would be if they were still roaming the cold caves of 
Afghanistan. They eat three nutritious meals a day, including 
halal, cereal and granola bars. They enjoy their own large cell, 
talking freely with one another, worshiping with a prayer 
leader, and writing home.

  Indeed, the evil-doers at Camp X-Ray are getting far better 
treatment than they deserve - hot showers, a warm Caribbean 
climate and access to the exact same medical care as the 
military personnel who live on the base. It seems our critics 
would prefer that the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists instead 
stay at the Ritz-Carlton.

  By way of contrast, the men and women of our military who have 
the extremely dangerous job of guarding these thugs live in 
12-person tents, take cold showers using a hose, and often must 
cope without the benefits of electricity. They have been away 
from home for months, and they serve our nation with dignity and 
honor.

  As I toured Camp X-Ray, I stared into the faces of evil. As I 
stood just feet away from barbarians who only weeks earlier 
fired machine guns at American troops, incited bloody prison 
riots and ambushes and, boasted of plans to kill innocent 
people, I could not help but feel the grief and anguish of those 
who lost loved ones on September 11 or during the war in 
Afghanistan. I have no doubt that, if given the opportunity, any 
of the detainees would have relished the chance to kill me. 
Indeed, since their arrival at Camp-X-Ray, some of the 
terrorists have openly threatened the Marines who guard them and 
talk anxiously about returning home soon to continue terrorizing 
the American people.

  There is a greater purpose behind Camp X-Ray than merely 
detaining these violent enemies of the United States. At 
Guantanamo Bay, federal officials are conducting extensive 
interviews with the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists, culling 
information on the terrorist network and the whereabouts and 
future plans of the tens of thousands of terrorists who were 
trained in the same camps and who are now living around the 
world.

  Already, intelligence gathered from other al Qaeda detainees has 
uncovered potential plots to attack American embassies, nuclear 
power plants and public water facilities. In the caves and 
hideouts of al Qaeda operatives, we have found instruction books 
on how to build chemical and biological weapons, detailed maps 
of American cities and descriptions of landmarks. The type of 
work that is occurring at Camp X-Ray may prove critical to 
preventing a new attack.

  President Bush and America deserve appreciation from all corners 
of the globe for leading the world in the war against terrorism 
and for making every nation safer.

  America's treatment of the Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists at 
Camp X-Ray is appropriate and, in my opinion, too good for these 
murderous thugs. Instead of lecturing the United States, our 
critics may better spend their time reminding others that if 
terrorists don't want to be detained at Camp X-Ray, they should 
join the civilized world.

  Rep. Vito Fossella represents the 13th Congressional District of 
New York, including Staten Island and parts of Brooklyn.


Navy Officer Balances Religious Responsibilities

 


 
 
Miami Herald 
January 31, 2002 
Navy Officer Balances Religious Responsibilities 
By Carol Rosenberg 

  GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba -- You're the first-ever 
American Muslim cleric to minister to a prison camp full of 
suspected terrorists and one confides he has a weapon.

  
Do you keep the secret?

  
Or do you breach religious confidentiality?

  If you're U.S. Navy Lt. Abuhena Mohammad Saiful-Islam you search 
for a third way to resolve the clear conflict of interest 
between the crescent moon pin stuck in your left lapel and the 
lieutenant's bars on the right side of your uniform.

  ``I will say, `Give it to me,' -- and not tell the general who 
had it,'' he says softly but firmly. ``I'll make sure that he 
doesn't have it.''

  A 39-year-old life-long, practicing Muslim, the soft-spoken 
Bangladesh immigrant is navigating uncharted waters and juggling 
complicated loyalties -- all while managing an international 
spotlight he has never experienced before.

  As a U.S. military chaplain, his contacts with prisoners are 
governed by the same confidentiality as that of a priest, 
minister or rabbi in the clergy corps. Saiful-Islam is by 
training an imam, or a prayer leader, who guides the faithful in 
a mosque during the five-times-a-day Muslim prayer.

  At Camp X-ray, he is also serving the function of a muezzin, the 
person who announces the call to prayer, commonly from a tower 
called a minaret. In his case, he is using a public address 
system and recording the prayer for five-times-a-day broadcast.

  Sometimes he laughs uncomfortably when questioned by 
journalists. Sometimes he looks bewildered. But mostly he's a 
busy man, trying to soothe Muslim sensitivities over the rugged 
chain-linked-fence cells at Camp X-ray.

  
Advocate

  Saiful-Islam arrived at the detention center for suspected 
terrorists on Jan. 24 and made his debut by chanting the 
pre-dawn call to prayer to wake up alleged leaders of 
Afghanistan's Taliban militia and members of Osama bin Laden's 
al Qaeda network.

  Since then, he has emerged as their advocate, arguing that the 
U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few 
amenities of everyday Islamic life.

  Soon, he says, traditional white knit skullcaps will arrive for 
the captives to top off their fluorescent orange jumpsuits.

  Saiful-Islam has also asked for some copies of the Koran, in 
Urdu, a language of Afghanistan and Pakistan, plus large-type, 
Arabic copies for those with bad eyesight or those who read like 
elementary school children.

  ``These things are hard to find in America, and Gitmo is far, 
far away,'' says Saiful-Islam, a husband and father of a nearly 
2-year-old daughter in California.

  Until he emerged as the chaplain of choice for this special 
assignment from among only 14 Muslim clerics in the U.S. armed 
forces, he was the only cleric specifically assigned to a Marine 
Corps base -- at Camp Pendleton, Calif.

  Military recruiters building a Muslim chaplains corps spotted 
Saiful-Islam in 1993, while he was an enlisted man working as a 
payroll clerk in the Pentagon and studying part-time to become a 
Muslim cleric.

  He was commissioned as an officer in 1998, just a year after 
obtaining U.S. citizenship and nine years after leaving his 
homeland to study in America.

  The first time he was sent to a theater of combat came in 
October when he served as chaplain at Operation Brightstar, a 
huge military exercise in Egypt not far from the World War II 
battleground called al-Alamein.

  
No Answers

  His role has a curious juxtaposition, which he sums up simply. 
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he 
says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that 
have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called 
Great Satan, the United States.

  ``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and 
neither does the religion, Islam.''

  But after several days of four- and five-hour shifts inside the 
camp, hearing the prisoners' requests, he said exchanges have 
not dipped that deeply into the doctrinal.

  
Mostly, they ask about their fate, and when they might go home.

  
``I don't have any answer for them,'' he says.

  Conversations between the cleric and the captives have taken 
place, one on one, in his native Bengali and Urdu. Others 
require the services of Arabic interpreters -- who, like 
Saiful-Islam, are U.S. military men in battle dress uniforms.

  So far no one has asked him how a practicing Muslim can also 
wear the uniform of the U.S. armed forces. It was a question he 
had expected. But instead, he says with surprise, ``They all 
want to speak with me. They all raise their hands'' to catch the 
attention of the U.S. government's designated spiritual leader.

  ``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,'' 
he says, with a sigh. ``I wish I had more time.''


   Officials bristle at US human rights report

 



  
Response is being prepared

  
Khalil Fleihan

  
Daily Star correspondent

  Local authorities have expressed dissatisfaction - but not 
surprise - with regard to excerpts about Lebanon in the US State 
Department's annual report on human rights, a copy of which has 
been delivered to the Foreign Ministry.

  An official source who described the reaction on Tuesday said 
the criticism was an annual event and emphasized that it was not 
directed at human rights in Lebanon only, but covered several 
other countries in as well.

  A copy of the report, which criticizes what it described as the 
weakening of the central government's prerogatives, has been 
handed over by the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy in 
Awkar, Carol Kalin, to the Foreign Ministry's acting 
director-general, Naji Abi Assi.

  The source said that the ministry would soon deliver copies of 
the report to the various ministries concerned, especially the 
Interior and Municipalities Ministry, prior to relaying its 
observations to the State Department in Washington.

  The report was seen as discrediting Lebanon by portraying the 
country as being undemocratic or uncivilized and abusing human 
rights, the source added. According to the source, the 
authorities' dissatisfaction with the contents of the report has 
been conveyed to US Ambassador Vincent Battle, who returned from 
Washington on Saturday after participating in a conference of 
American envoys posted to Arab countries.

  Each year, Lebanon sends an explanation to the State Department 
about the factors outside of the government's control.

  The source said the most serious point in the report was an 
observation that the judiciary was subjected to political 
pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in 
principle."

  The report's reference to intelligence agents' monitoring the 
activities of opposition politicians and tapping the phones of 
certain government leaders "is a serious matter and harms 
Lebanon's image as a democratic country," the source added.

  On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the 
Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of 
the government and its practices.

  
Your feedback is important to us!

  We invite all our readers to share with us their views and 
comments about this article.

  
Please type in your comment below and press 'submit'

  You must fill in your name and email address just in case we 
need to get in touch with you.

  The editor may decide to publish your comment as a letter to the 
editor;

  Your personal information will be kept confidential and will 
never be disclosed to anyone

  
Name

  
E-mail

  
Address

  
Tel

  
FAX

  
Please contact me as soon as possible regarding this matter.

  
DS

Copyright@ 2000 The Daily Star. All rights reserved.




Camp X-Ray

 


Time 
January 28, 2002

  
Camp X-Ray

  When is a war prisoner not a POW? When the U.S. brings Afghan 
detainees to Guantanamo Bay

  
By Michael Elliott

  It's not going to be a country club," said Defense Secretary 
Donald Rumsfeld last week, describing the new military detention 
camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and nobody ever expected it would 
be. The 110 al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners admitted to "Gitmo" 
by the end of last week are, said Rumsfeld, "the hardest of the 
hard core," men who had killed "dozens and dozens of people." 
But though it may lack tennis courts and a putting green, the 
amenities are better than you'd find in a cave at Tora Bora. 
True, prisoners are now confined to 6-ft. by 8-ft. chain-link 
enclosures with concrete floors and tin roofs (Rumsfeld thinks 
it's "pejorative" to call them cages). But relief will come; in 
three months, the Pentagon hopes to replace the facility with 
something more permanent.

  In the meantime, the prisoners at Camp X-Ray--as the place has 
been called since the early 1990s when it housed Haitian 
refugees--have been given thin green mats and blankets on which 
to sleep and pray, and are allowed to shower and exercise. They 
are provided with a medical exam upon admission, and their diet 
(is someone making a point about diversity here?) ranges from 
bagels and cream cheese to rice and beans--all eaten with 
plastic utensils--after which the prisoners may clean their 
teeth with specially shortened brushes. (The caution makes 
sense; in 2000 Mamdouh Salim, an al-Qaeda operative awaiting 
trial in New York City for his part in the 1998 embassy 
bombings, used a comb to stab a prison guard through the eye.)

  So far, humanitarian groups have been muted in their criticism 
of the conditions at Guantanamo. Last week a delegation from the 
International Committee of the Red Cross arrived to inspect the 
camp and offer private recommendations on its operation. But in 
the European press, the prisoners' lot has become a public issue 
of contention among those who demand that U.S. conduct be above 
suspicion. Three detainees are said to have claimed to be 
British citizens. Politicians and commentators in London are now 
clamoring that all held in Gitmo must be guaranteed treatment in 
accordance with international law. The Daily Telegraph, a paper 
usually so conservative that it makes Pat Buchanan look 
vegetarian, warned Washington of the need to draw a "distinction 
between civilized society and the apocalyptic savagery of those 
who would destroy it."

  At the heart of the matter is a question of legality. The 
Pentagon has resisted calling the detainees prisoners of war, 
preferring the terms unlawful combatants or battlefield 
detainees. It's easy to see why. Under the Geneva Convention, 
those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of 
hostilities; but that is the last thing the U.S. wants to do 
with men who may be al-Qaeda operatives. Moreover, by convention 
(though the law seems to be murky here) POWs don't need to tell 
their captors anything other than their name, rank, serial 
number and birthday. But for Washington, the whole point of the 
detention is to conduct interrogations and thus head off new 
acts of terrorism.

  The Geneva Convention does contemplate that some irregular 
forces captured in battle need not be considered POWs. That may 
well apply to members of al-Qaeda, a free-floating band of 
terrorists. But not all of those at Gitmo are al-Qaeda men. 
Some--the Pentagon won't say how many--were members of the 
Taliban and presumably thought they were part of the Afghan 
army. Are they POWs? Washington says no, because the Taliban had 
no clear chain of command and was not a legitimate government. 
That may be so; unfortunately, as Amnesty International has 
pointed out, under the Geneva Convention the Pentagon has no 
business making such a determination. Those who fall into the 
enemy's hands are entitled to POW status until a "competent 
tribunal" has determined their status. In the case of those in 
Cuba, that hasn't happened.

  More curious still is the matter of the prisoners' ultimate 
fate. Rumsfeld has laid out four options: a military trial, a 
trial in U.S. criminal courts, return to their home countries 
for prosecution, or continued detention "while additional 
intelligence is gathered." The last seems a distinct 
possibility; the Pentagon plans to build 2,000 cells at Camp 
X-Ray. "This will be a big deal down there for at least two 
years, guaranteed," says Army Lieut. General B.B. Bell, who 
commands Fort Hood, Texas, the base from which military police 
have been deployed to Cuba. But it's hard to find a 
justification for such detention in the Geneva Convention or 
anywhere else. Leaving the prisoners "indefinitely beyond the 
reach of any legal regime," said the Economist last week, "would 
put America--pre-eminently a nation of laws--itself outside the 
law."

  Until the Pentagon sorts out the legal issues, criticism from 
Europe is likely to grow. Still, things could be worse. The 
prisoners may be in Cuba, but nobody has yet forced them to 
listen to Fidel Castro's long-winded speeches. Now that really 
would be cruel.

  
With Reporting by Mark Thompson/Washington


U.S. Tells China Taiwan Remarks a Mistake - Xinhua

 



  BEIJING -- The United States told China U.S. President George W. 
Bush had made a mistake when he called Taiwan a country in a 
speech last week, the official Xinhua news agency reported on 
Sunday.

  Washington told China the U.S. government has not changed its 
Taiwan policy and said it would not refer to Taiwan in that way 
again, Xinhua quoted a foreign ministry spokeswoman as saying.

  Reports in Taiwanese newspapers on Friday said Bush called the 
island the "Republic of Taiwan" and a "country" in a speech to 
diplomats and business executives on Thursday.

  Calling Taiwan a country would threaten to compromise a major 
pillar of Sino-U.S. relations, which were set up in 1979 largely 
based on a U.S. nod to the "One China" Principle, which states 
that Taiwan is a part of China, Reuters reported.

  Beijing, which regards the island as a wayward province to be 
reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, asked for an 
explanation on Saturday of why Bush had referred to Taiwan as a 
country.

  Taiwan's ***United Daily News ***quoted a U.S. official as 
saying Bush's labeling Taiwan as a republic was a "slip of the 
tongue" and indicated no shift in U.S. policy.

  Bush was referring to the entry late last year and this year of 
China and Taiwan, respectively, into the World Trade 
Organization, reports said.

  The English-language ***Taipei Times ***newspaper quoted Bush as 
saying it was "important to recognize and to welcome both 
countries, both the Republic of Taiwan, and of course China, 
into the World Trade Organization."

  The Taiwan issue has often caused rough patches in bilateral 
ties and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan have angered Beijing.

  Last month an editorial in the official ***China Daily *** 
newspaper said Beijing felt "betrayed" after a U.S. decision to 
allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yiau-Ming into the United 
States for talks with Defense officials and warned of a setback 
in Sino-U.S. ties.

  But foreign ministry officials later confirmed both sides were 
moving ahead with plans for a scheduled visit by Chinese 
Vice-President Hu Jintao to the United States in late April.


Bush Takes Great Leap Forward In Pledging U.S. Help In Defending Taiwan

 


Honolulu Star-Bulletin 
March 17, 2002

  
The Rising East

  Bush Takes Great Leap Forward In Pledging U.S. Help In Defending 
Taiwan

  
By Richard Halloran

  In a closed-door meeting in Florida last week, the Bush 
administration took a great leap forward in its declared policy 
that Taiwan remain separate from China so long as the people of 
Taiwan wish, even if that requires U.S. military force.

  The host of the three-day U.S.-Taiwan Defense Summit was Frank 
Carlucci, chairman of the U.S.-Taiwan Business Council, onetime 
deputy director of central intelligence, national security 
adviser to President Reagan, later secretary of defense and 
possibly the most secretive official in Washington in many 
years.

  Why the meeting was so hidden was not clear, other than to avoid 
flaunting it in the face of China, which claims sovereignty over 
Taiwan and protests every American action favoring the island. 
Even so, enough leaked out to illuminate President Bush's 
policy, which has been consistent ever since he enunciated it 
during his campaign for the presidency.

  The centerpiece was a visit by Taiwan's defense minister, Tang 
Yao-ming, the first since President Carter switched U.S. 
diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to China in 1979. That Tang 
was invited was more evidence that Bush has adopted the most 
pro-Taiwan posture of any president in nearly a quarter century; 
his stance differs distinctly from that of President Clinton, 
who tilted in favor of Beijing.

  The senior U.S. official at the gathering was Deputy Secretary 
of Defense Paul Wolfowitz, who has written: "It would be a 
strategic as well as a moral mistake for the United States to 
ever let China use force to have its way with Taiwan." He has 
cautioned, however, that the United States expected Taiwan to 
avoid provoking China.

  Tang asserted that Taiwan would do no such thing. After talking 
with Wolfowitz for two hours, Tang said he had guaranteed that 
his government would "by no means take any provocative step" 
toward China.

  The meeting, at an exclusive resort in St. Petersburg, brought 
out representatives of America's biggest defense contractors -- 
Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, General 
Dynamics, United Technologies, Textron, Honeywell International, 
and United Defense. Among them, they make every weapon Taiwan 
could possibly want to fend off the expanding might of China.

  China's military threat to Taiwan is not immediate. Adm. Dennis 
Blair, who commands U.S. forces in the Pacific, told Congress 
recently: "The PLA (Peoples Liberation Army) is still years away 
from the capability to take and hold Taiwan."

  The admiral cautioned, however: "Continued improvements in 
Taiwan's capabilities and development of USPACOM (United States 
Pacific Command) capabilities will be necessary to maintain 
sufficient defense."

  Bush began enunciating his policy on Taiwan in November 1999, 
saying that he would honor "our promises to the people of 
Taiwan" and "we deny the right of Beijing to impose their rule 
on a free people."

  The Republican election platform reflected the candidate's 
policy: "All issues regarding Taiwan's future must be resolved 
peacefully and must be agreeable to the people of Taiwan." It 
said that if China attacked Taiwan, "the United States will 
respond appropriately in accordance with the Taiwan Relations 
Act."

  The TRA, adopted after Carter broke relations with Taiwan, 
commits the United States to provide defensive arms to Taiwan 
and to view a threat from China with "grave concern." Bush has 
repeatedly referred to the TRA in a not-so-subtle message to 
China that the law is the bedrock of his posture on Taiwan.

  The most succinct statement of the Bush policy came from 
Secretary of State Colin Powell during his Senate confirmation 
hearing in January 2001: "We expect and demand a peaceful 
settlement, one acceptable to people on both sides of the Taiwan 
Strait."

  Shortly after Bush took office, he approved the largest U.S. 
arms sale to Taiwan, allowing Taiwan to buy four destroyers, 
eight diesel-powered submarines, 12 anti-submarine aircraft and 
a flock of missiles and other weapons.

  At the same time, he said the United States would do whatever it 
takes to help defend Taiwan. He told an interviewer: "China must 
know that if circumstances warrant, that we will uphold the 
spirit of the Taiwan Relations Act." Whatever decision Bush 
makes, a defense official said, the Pacific Command is ready "to 
respond to any potential crisis, including the use of force 
against Taiwan by China."

  The critical question: Will the Chinese, noting American 
military operations in Afghanistan, heed these warnings or will 
they miscalculate and try to call Bush's bluff?

  Richard Halloran is a former correspondent for The New York 
Times in Asia and a former editorial director of the 
Star-Bulletin. His column appears Sundays.


Jordan to sign Kyoto Protocol

 



  AMMAN - Jordan said it will sign the Kyoto Protocol, a UN pact 
on impeding global greenhouse gas emissions, following a recent 
Cabinet decision, according to Faris Juneidi, director general 
of the General Corporation for Environment Protection (GCEP).

  "Soon, the government will delegate Jordan's representative to 
the United Nations, HH Prince Zeid Ben Raad, to sign the 
protocol," Juneidi told The Jordan Times on Tuesday, adding that 
an exact date for signing of the environmental agreement had not 
been set.

  In 1997, at a UN conference in Kyoto, Japan, the Kyoto Protocol 
legally obliged developed countries to reduce the amount of 
greenhouse gas emissions by 8 per cent (below 1990 levels) 
between 2008 and 2012.

  Although developed countries are the world's main source of 
large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the 
protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the 
different international conventions," Juneidi said.

  With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract 
more funding to contribute to the international community's 
efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the 
earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.

  GCEP, an agency operating under the Ministry of Municipal and 
Rural Affairs and the Environment, is the country's point of 
reference for environmental pacts.

  On Monday, the 15 European Union member states agreed to be 
formally bound to the Kyoto accord, and complete the 
ratification by June 1 this year.

  In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by 
saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision 
slammed by European Union countries at the time. Instead the US 
government produced its own alternative climate change strategy 
aimed at encouraging industries to trim their emissions.

  Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance 
towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the 
national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic 
damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).


72 Hours At Camp X-Ray

 


St. Petersburg Times  
February 20, 2002 
Pg. 1

  
72 Hours At Camp X-Ray

  As the detention camp reaches capacity, reporters are invited to 
watch the interplay between detainees, guards and doctors.

  
By Paul De La Garza

  GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba - It begins as a shiny speck in 
the southeast skies of the lone landing strip here at Gitmo, the 
oldest U.S. base overseas. Within minutes the lumbering, gray 
C-141B Starlifter flies low over the tarmac and over a patch of 
palm trees, as if part of an annual air show. On a hot and windy 
afternoon, the deep blue waters of the Caribbean serve as the 
postcard backdrop.

  When the cargo jet finally lands, approaching the landing strip 
from the west, the noise is deafening.

  Almost immediately a crack security force of mostly baby-faced 
Marines surrounds the plane. They wear black baseball leg guards 
and bulletproof vests and carry M-16 rifles.

  Meanwhile, Humvees mounted with .50-caliber machine guns and 
40mm grenade launchers take their positions. A Navy helicopter 
whirls overhead.

  Once the aircraft is secured, the freak show begins, a sort of 
"Hannibal the Cannibal" production. Down the back ramp of the 
mammoth aircraft, the guards slowly unload the latest detainees 
from the war in Afghanistan, 34 altogether.

  Wearing bright orange wool knit caps, blacked-out goggles, 
earmuffs, white surgical masks, bright orange jumpsuits, denim 
jackets, beige mittens (taped around the wrists), handcuffs and 
ankle shackles, the detainees don't look natural.

  
They look like giant bright orange flies.

  After a 25-hour flight of mostly sitting, the prisoners hobble 
along as the Marines, who look twice as big, walk them out and 
frisk them. One soldier handles a captive like a mannequin - 
moving him back, forward, and to the side - before lifting him 
straight off his feet and onto one of two waiting buses.

  
"Walk! Walk!" the guards shout.

  
"Shut up! Head down!"

  "Man, they must be so scared," says a TV camerawoman watching 
with an international media pool from about 400 yards away.

  
"It must be freaky," chimes in her colleague.

  The prisoners are here because the military considers them 
"hard-core" terrorists - willing to escape, to kill themselves 
and others. But now they do pretty much as directed. They walk, 
they shut up, they lower their heads. They board buses that will 
take them to a ferry that will take them across Guantanamo Bay 
to a detention facility known as Camp X-Ray.

  A sign near the ferry slip conveys some of the strange vibe of 
Guantanamo, a 45-square mile naval base in which the detention 
camp comprises some 3 acres. The sign touts the area's wildlife 
- the brown pelican, the Antillean manatee, the bottlenose 
dolphin, the hawksbill turtle.

  "Watching wildlife can be a lot of fun," says the sign. "A pair 
of binoculars is helpful."

  Last Wednesday, the 10th flight from Kandahar to the 
southeastern tip of Cuba arrived, bringing the total number of 
detainees at Camp X-Ray to 288. A day later, another 12 came, 
effectively filling the camp to capacity.

  Base officials allowed reporters to record audio and report the 
landings live via cell phone for the first time since the 
flights began arriving Jan. 11. They refused to allow cameras.

  The last time the Pentagon released pictures of the detainees - 
on their knees, wearing the goggles, and surrounded by guards - 
the images created an international uproar. Rights groups cried 
inhumane treatment.

  Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld denied the allegations, 
insisting that the detainees have it better here than in 
Afghanistan.

  And he did what he routinely does when questioned about the way 
the United States is prosecuting the war on terrorism: He 
reminded critics of Sept. 11.

  When the detainees arrive at Camp X-Ray, they are told they're 
in Cuba and then undergo a 45-minute intake process, which, like 
the airstrip landing, is monitored by the Red Cross.

  The routine includes a delousing, or chemical washdown, and a 
physical. The detainees also get fingerprinted and photographed.

  They get a toothbrush, mint-flavored toothpaste, a bottle of 
"Lively Salon" antidandruff shampoo, soap, flip flops, a foam 
sleeping mat, two buckets, a washcloth, a canteen, a prayer cap, 
two blankets, a sheet, a Koran and two towels, one for praying.

  And, strangely, they get to write home. It's not that the U.S. 
military has a soft spot for the mothers of the Taliban or 
al-Qaida. Instead, base officials try to glean the prisoners' 
real names from the letters, as many tend to give multiple 
aliases during interrogations.

  When they're done, they're assigned to the cells in which they 
will begin their new lives. These are 8-feet-square, with 
chain-link sides and tin roofs. The Halogen lights stay on all 
night.

  The next day starts with prayer call about 5 a.m. A sign on a 
pole at the edge of the camp points the direction to Mecca. The 
prisoners come from 31 countries, including Saudi Arabia, Yemen, 
Pakistan, Algeria, England, Egypt, Australia, France, Russia, 
Belgium and Sweden. Base officials say there are Christian 
prisoners as well as Muslims.

  After prayer, the detainees' day goes like this: breakfast, a 
shower (every other day), sick call, noon prayer, lunch, 
recreation (15 minutes a couple of times a week), mail call, 
sunset prayer, dinner, evening prayer and bedtime around 9 p.m.

  Each meal the detainees get is considered halal, or religiously 
appropriate for Muslims. A typical breakfast includes oatmeal, 
an orange, fresh bread and a bottle of water. For lunch, it's 
pasta or vegetable stew, dry cereal including Froot Loops, a box 
of raisins, two granola bars, a bag of chips, and bag of peanuts 
and water.

  
For dinner they get white rice, red beans, a banana and water.

  U.S. Army Capt. Sean Campion, one of the camp guards, 
characterizes life at Camp X-Ray as "utter boredom."

  "If you do your job right," says Campion, 32, of Kansas City, 
Mo., "nothing is scheduled to happen."

  The guards mostly communicate with the prisoners via simple 
English commands and hand signals.

  "We're not holding any lengthy debates with them or anything," 
Campion says.

  Marine Corps Lt. Abuhena Mohammad Saiful-Islam, 39, speaks more 
with the detainees than almost anybody at the camp. As the 
Muslim chaplain, he ministers at the facility up to five hours 
every day.

  He says that with the start of the Muslim month of pilgrimage, 
during which the faithful journey to the holy city of Mecca, he 
detects more anxiety in the camp. Base officials are considering 
a special meal for March 10.

  "The role of chaplain is unique," Saiful-Islam says. "We don't 
go with a preconceived idea that the person is so and so. As a 
chaplain we approach them as a human being.

  
"We don't hate the sinner," he says, "but we hate the sin."

  Somebody asks Saiful-Islam if the relationship between the 
detainees and God has changed since their capture.

  "They haven't said that God has abandoned them, because they 
know," he says. "That's the hope that they have, that God is 
their only hope.

  "They do ask me what's going to happen. At this moment, I don't 
have an answer."

  Concertina wire and nine guard towers surround Camp X-Ray. The 
American flag is everywhere - painted on the guard towers, 
flying high in front of the facility.

  Unlike other parts of the base, the camp does not have a pretty 
setting. Turkey vultures hover over thick brush and scraggly 
hills.

  It is day two at X-Ray for the 34 newly arrived from Kandahar. A 
German shepherd and his handler patrol the camp's perimeter. 
Bright orange figures sit in their cells, some of them praying. 
One or two prisoners run for exercise in a fenced area, wearing 
handcuffs but no ankle shackles.

  Every so often a prisoner is led to one of five interrogation 
rooms, freshly built wood buildings with air conditioners and no 
windows. Three guards accompany him - one on either side and one 
behind.

  One of the guards puts a hand behind the head of the detainee, 
forcing him to look down. This is done to "provide positive 
control," says U.S. Army Col. Terry Carrico, in effect the 
prison warden.

  "It means he can't look ahead. He can't make a plan. They don't 
know where they're going. That's a technique across correctional 
facilities in the United States."

  Except for an occasional spitting incident or threat, officials 
say, the prisoners are docile. Base officials suspect that the 
people already in custody pass the word along to the new 
arrivals that they will be treated okay.

  "In the beginning, they were very unsure," says Carrico. "They 
didn't know if we were going to take care of them, hurt them or 
kill them."

  Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the 
prisoners. But U.S. Army Capt. Darrell Sides, 30, of Fort 
Benning, Ga., makes no bones about considering them terrorists.

  "We were all watching television Sept. 11," he says. "The 
security here I would consider tighter than death row in a 
prison in the United States."

  The morning run to Fleet Hospital 20 takes place as scheduled. 
This is for prisoners needing medical attention, as a fair 
number do. Some are underweight, others are missing toes, 
fingers and limbs.

  The hospital is several miles from Camp X-Ray, off Recreation 
Road. Along the way, if allowed, the detainees would get to see 
a bit of Americana, a portrait built over the past century.

  U.S. forces seized Guantanamo Bay during the Spanish-American 
War. In 1903, the U.S. government signed a lease with the 
Republic of Cuba. That contract, extended indefinitely in 1934, 
can be broken only by mutual agreement.

  The growth of the base has left Camp X-Ray surprisingly close to 
a suburban-style military community of beige, green and yellow 
houses in subdivisions with names like Caribbean Circle and West 
Iguana.

  Two boys in white karate outfits run down palm-lined Sherman 
Avenue. Another child, no more than 3 or 4, plays on a gym set, 
with a young woman keeping a watchful eye.

  Also up the road is the W.S. Sampson Elementary School, replete 
with yellow school buses, the Morale Welfare and Recreation 
Cooper Field with baseball and soccer fields, and the base's 
outdoor movie house, which is playing the movie, The Majestic.

  The 20-bed hospital is a high-tech, air-conditioned white tent 
which looks like a futuristic movie set, with low ceilings, 
fluorescent lighting, and padded white walls, floors and 
ceilings. The staff calls it a "temper tent."

  On this morning, U.S. Navy hospital corpsman Shuron Jerome, 19, 
of Houston is poring over a box of Valentines sent to Guantanamo 
by schoolchildren in Pennsylvania.

  
"Wish you could be with your family," one child has written.

  Jerome says the hospital feels no different than a hospital in 
the states, save for the high security and the various languages 
the detainees speak, including French, Russian, Urdu and Arabic. 
Most understand a little English, she says.

  While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that 
they're not "regular patients." She often finds herself 
thinking, "Oh, my God, they could be related to this or related 
to that. But I still try to treat them as a patient."

  Fleet Hospital 20 has nine patients today. The bulk of the work 
includes blast and gunshot wounds from the war in Afghanistan.

  Just the other day, however, a surgeon took out the eye of a 
patient who had suffered a sports injury when he was younger. 
The pressure on the eye had become unbearable.

  The story got international play because it seemed to underscore 
the fact that tensions between the Americans and the detainees 
were easing. Indeed, the patient invited the surgeon for a cup 
of tea after the operation.

  The staff gives reporters a quick tour of the hospital, allowing 
photographs of some sections but not of the patients.

  As an al-Jazeera television crew walks through, the staff rolls 
out a patient who has just had his right index finger amputated 
as a result of a gunshot wound. The cameraman continues filming 
while a nurse covers the patient's face.

  In the recovery room, the patient's body starts trembling. The 
doctors explain this is a common reaction as patients awake from 
anesthesia. Still, it provides a bit of drama.

  "Michel! Michel!" yells a doctor still in her operating clothes. 
"You're doing good."

  Another doctor, speaking with a French accent, adds, "Good job, 
buddy."

  Finally, an interpreter comes in to talk to the patient. Eight 
other young-looking men, with shaved heads and beards growing, 
recover in their cots. Most of them sleep.

  The medical staff relies on linguists to help communicate with 
the patients, but they've also come up with their own 
inventions, such as a longhand list of English phrases and their 
Arabic counterparts. In a pinch, they show the patients the 
list, which includes the following phrases: I'm in pain. 
Thirsty. Hungry. Bathroom. Urinate. Arm. Hand. Leg. Back. IV 
Hurts. Cold. Hot. Sick, will throw up.

  While calm has returned to Fleet Hospital 20, officials 
elsewhere on the base are bracing for what they say may be 
inevitable: the death of one of the detainees. Not at the hands 
of the guards. But with 300 already in custody, and scores in 
poor health to begin with, they say something is bound to 
happen.

  In a briefing with reporters, Marine Corps Brig. Gen. Michael R. 
Lehnert, the commander of the prison project, says, "We continue 
to work to improve living conditions for both the detainees and 
our security forces."

  Within a couple months, he says, the operation will move to 
another part of Guantanamo called Radio Range, where utilities 
are more readily available and cells will have cots, air 
conditioning and toilets. The general is awaiting congressional 
approval before building for Radio Range begins.

  
For now, with the camp at capacity, flights here have stopped.


   Zambia hails result

 



  LUSAKA -- Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa yesterday hailed the 
re-election of his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe and 
called on defeated opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to accept the 
controversial result.

  "I am pleased to learn of the re-election of President Robert 
Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe," Mwanawasa said in a statement.

  "As chairman of the Organisation of African Unity and president 
of a friendly neighbour, I congratulate President Mugabe on his 
re-election," Mwanawasa said.

  Three of the 10 losing presidential candidates in Zambia's 
December 27 vote have petitioned the Supreme Court to nullify 
the results, charging that Mwanawasa won the election by fraud. 
-- Sapa-AFP




The Fall And Rise Of Hugo Chavez

 


Washington Times 
April 25, 2002 
Pg. 18

  
The Fall And Rise Of Hugo Chavez

  In Venezuela, the dust is finally settling after the dramatic 
turbulence of the past two weeks. President Hugo Chavez is once 
again at the helm of power, and the military has returned to its 
barracks. But there are many grieving Venezuelans who aren't 
quite at peace. Their loved ones were gunned down, first by 
sympathizers of Mr. Chavez and subsequently by supporters of the 
short-lived interim government.

  Mr. Chavez was ousted in a military coup on April 12 after 17 
persons were killed during an anti-Chavez protest, apparently by 
sharpshooters faithful to the president. Pedro Carmona, a 
powerful businessman, stepped into power on Friday but was 
forced to resign the next day. Following the coup, 40 persons, 
mostly Chavez supporters, were killed while protesting.

  A probe of what transpired should be in the offing. Mr. Chavez 
has placed his cronies in every democratic institution, from 
congress to the courts, and is expected to prevent any honest 
inquiry. So far, Mr. Chavez appears complicit in the initial 
wave of killings. According to taped radio conversations 
broadcast yesterday in Venezuela on radio and television, Mr. 
Chavez ordered tanks and troops to surround the presidential 
palace, as unarmed civilian protesters marched against him on 
April 11. The Chavez administration said it ordered the 
deployment to "prevent public order disturbances." Given the 
death toll, Mr. Chavez's claims seem rather flimsy.

  This is most unfortunate. Venezuela is this hemisphere's 
second-oldest democracy. At a time when democracy is losing 
currency in many countries, particularly Argentina, coups could 
be potentially destabilizing to the region. "We are happy to 
collectively have overcome the era of coup d'etats in the 
region, and when events in Venezuela took on the appearance of a 
military coup there was a reaction by everyone," said Brazil's 
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso. Mr. Cardoso's concerns are 
quite valid, but he has downplayed some of Mr. Chavez's more 
alarming faults.

  The Venezuelan leader has struck friendships with Cuban, Libyan 
and Iraqi leaders with great fanfare, and his open defiance of 
U.S. interests has wooed Venezuelans wary of U.S. power. Indeed, 
after all the muscle-flexing, Mr. Chavez has little to offer the 
Venezuelan people. He has choked off foreign investment by 
doubling the royalty payments oil companies must pay to the 
government and by restricting corporate ownership on some oil 
projects to 49 percent. He has also alienated workers at his 
country's state-owned oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela, by 
replacing long-serving professionals with his supporters. In 
fact, Mr. Chavez consolidated his power by rewriting the 
country's constitution in 1999.

  Interestingly, Mr. Chavez initially rose to power in the 1990s 
because of the discontent with former President Carlos Andres 
Perez, who had ordered the military to shoot at crowds in 1989. 
And, while only time will tell if he would voluntarily give up 
power when his term in 2006, one thing is certain: A serious 
investigation of the massacre of April 2002 is certainly called 
for.


Mugabe wins poll, amid claims of rigging

 



  HARARE, March 13 (AFP) - Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert 
Mugabe swept to victory Wednesday in Presidential elections in a 
vote that challenger Morgan Tsvangirai declared was rigged and 
unacceptable.

  Registrar General Tobaiwa Mudede announced on state television 
that Mugabe was re-elected with 1,685,212 votes against 
1,258,758 votes for Tsvangirai, leader of the Movement for 
Democratic Change (MDC).

  `I ... therefore declare Robert Mugabe the winner for the office 
of the presidency of Zimbabwe,' Mudede said.

  Observers had warned that should the outcome be seen to have 
been rigged, violence could explode across the volatile southern 
African nation.

  As the results were being announced, about 100 heavily armed 
soldiers moved into Zimbabwe's second city Bulawayao and 
surrounded the MDC offices, where opposition officials had 
gathered.

  Defence Minister Sydney Sekeramayi has put security forces on 
the highest level of alert, according to state media.

  Police roadblocks were seen on the main roads leading to central 
Harare, security forces were patrolling the city and six police 
officers were stationed outside MDC headquarters.

  
Tsvangirai rejected Mugabe's election victory out of hand.

  `The election was massively rigged,' he told a packed press 
conference. `We therefore as MDC do not accept this result.'

  Foreign governments all but dismissed the outcome even before it 
was announced, threatening to leave Mugabe internationally 
isolated despite his victory.

  British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw cited `pretty strong' 
evidence that Mugabe has `stolen' Zimbabwe's vote, an outcome he 
said would have `enormous implications for the nature of our 
relationship with Zimbabwe.'

  US State Department spokeswoman Lynn Cassel said: `While we must 
wait for the final results, it is abundantly clear that this was 
a seriously flawed election.'

  The MDC leadership was due to meet later Wednesday to discuss 
the poll results, and Tsvangirai was due to address a media 
conference afterwards.

  `We have a national executive meeting ... where we will be 
looking at the figures and give the reaction of the party,' said 
David Coltart, an MDC MP.

  `To put it mildly the figures are very odd, with very low 
turnouts in the cities and massive ones in the rural areas, 
which is unprecedented in this country,' he said.

  Polling stations in Harare were reduced by 32 per cent in favour 
of an increase of voting outlets in rural areas, considered 
Mugabe's support base.

  Of 882,176 people registered to vote in Harare Province, 439,656 
or 49.8 per cent actually did so during the three days of 
polling that began Saturday and saw mile-long queues across the 
capital.

  The MDC, charging that the Mugabe government had followed a 
deliberate strategy of impeding the urban vote, went to the High 
Court and won an extra day of voting on Monday, but polls opened 
several hours late, and only an additional 24,000 votes were 
cast.

  The election is the hardest fought battle for Zimbabwe's top 
post since liberation war hero Mugabe took over after 
independence from Britain in 1980.

  `The election was preceded by months of government-orchestrated 
violence meant to intimidate voters (and) the opposition was 
repeatedly harassed and prevented from campaigning,' she said.

  Turnout across the southern African country was an estimated 66 
per cent in an election fraught by violence, intimidation and 
intense legal wrangling over civic rights and electoral rules.

  Even after the polls closed Monday, Mugabe's government kept up 
the pressure on the opposition by charging MDC Secretary General 
Welshman Ncube with high treason, which the party dismissed as a 
smear tactic. Ncube, along with Tsvangirai and four other top 
party officials, had been accused last month of plotting to 
assassinate the President.

  The tumultuous campaign grabbed international headlines and 
sparked diplomatic rows that landed Mugabe with sanctions from 
the European Union and the United States. Violence has claimed 
at least 33 lives, mostly those of opposition supporters, since 
the start of the year.

  The influential International Crisis Group (ICG) warned that the 
`risk of major violence erupting is exceedingly high' if the 
election was seen to be rigged.




   Mugabe won polls unfairly says West

 



  President Rob-ert Mugabe swept back to power in Zimbabwe 
yesterday after an election fiercely condemned by local 
monitors, the opposition and the West but praised by African 
nations.

  Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, easily beaten by the 
veteran president according to official results, said Mugabe had 
stolen the vote through violence and intimidation and by 
preventing hundreds of thousands of people from voting.

  The US said the election, extending Mugabe's 22-year rule for 
another six years, was "fundamentally flawed". Zimbabwe had 
ignored its commitment to a free and fair poll.

  Two State Department officials said Washington aimed to impose 
financial restrictions against any assets in the US held by 
Mugabe and senior members of his government but could not say 
when they would take effect.

  A deep split appeared between Western nations and African 
countries monitoring the vote, who closed ranks behind Mugabe, 
calling the election legitimate.

  Registrar-General Tobaiwa Mudede declared Mugabe the winner 
after results were in from all 120 constituencies. He said the 
former guerilla won his fifth term as leader after taking 
1,685,212 votes against 1,258,401 for Tsvangirai.

  The opposition leader said his Movement for Democratic Change 
(MDC) would not accept the result.

  "The election results ... do not reflect the true will of the 
people of Zimbabwe and are consequently illegitimate," he said.

  Norwegian and local observers said thousands of people, mostly 
in opposition strongholds, had been prevented from voting.

  But observers from South Africa, Namibia and Nigeria all said 
Mugabe's re-election was legitimate.

  South Africa and Nigeria together with Australia comprise a 
special Commonwealth group given the power to take measures 
against Zimbabwe if the election is deemed not to have been free 
and fair.

  Zimbabwe security forces went on high alert and erected 
roadblocks around Harare after the result was announced.

  The MDC said dozens of heavily armed soldiers had surrounded its 
office in the second city of Bulawayo. Small groups of armed 
riot police moved into Harare townships loyal to Tsvangirai.

  Several hundred Mugabe supporters danced in celebration and 
carried mock coffins for Tsvangirai in two Harare townships. One 
of the coffins was draped in the US flag.

  
Mugabe's government dismissed criticism of the election.

  Information Minister Jonathan Moyo said the result was a blow to 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair whom Mugabe accuses of 
sponsoring Tsvangirai.

  The former colonial power Britain said that Mugabe had held on 
to power through a "systematic campaign of violence and 
intimidation". Forward this article to a Colleague, Associate or 
Friend



Copyright @ 2002, Gulf Daily News -




   US-Japan climate talks end

 



  Representatives from Japan and the United States have finished 
two days of talks Tuesday on climate change in Tokyo.

  They discussed ways of co-operating in the science and 
technology fields to prevent global warming.

  The meeting was the first between the two countries since 
President George Bush unveiled a new US plan calling for 
voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions based on economic 
growth rather than mandatory targets.

  At the start of the meeting, the US said it would promote 
research and development into climate change.

  
Japan says it still intends to ratify the Kyoto protocol.

  President Bush caused an international outcry when he rejected 
the 1997 Kyoto protocol on climate change last year, saying it 
hindered US economic growth.

  
From the newsroom of the BBC World Service


Copyright @ BBC


Zimbabwe's rigged election

 



  The election this week in Zimbabwe was an ugly travesty from 
which all of southern Africa will suffer. Voters lined up for 
hours at polling stations, many of them in vain. Supporters of 
the main opposition candidate were intimidated and beaten. Then 
the long-serving, increasingly tyrannical president, Robert 
Mugabe, was declared the winner. International observers called 
the process deeply flawed, and the Bush administration has 
refused to recognize the declared results.

  Unfortunately, some leading African countries like South Africa 
and Nigeria have compounded the problem by accepting Mugabe's 
victory despite earlier assertions that they would not recognize 
the results of a rigged election. By failing to hold firm they 
not only damage their diplomatic credibility, but also ignore 
the consequences for nearby African states of Mugabe's misrule. 
These include explosive political frustration, a swelling tide 
of desperate refugees and a growing reluctance by foreign 
companies and donors to invest in the region. Washington and 
other Western governments may now strengthen the current mild 
sanctions against Zimbabwe. These steps would be far more 
effective if they were joined by major African states.

  Mugabe, who led Zimbabwe's liberation struggle against white 
minority rule in the late 1970's, has systematically wrecked his 
country's economy and its freedoms to prolong his 22-year-old 
hold on power. Zimbabwe should be an economic beacon, not a 
basket case. It is blessed with fertile agricultural land, and 
during the first dozen years of Mugabe's rule it was relatively 
prosperous and free.

  That picture changed radically in the mid-1990's when Mugabe 
shifted onto a highly destructive course. He incited violent 
land seizures that have taken a disastrous toll on agricultural 
investment and production and launched a broad assault on 
journalistic freedom and judicial independence. This campaign 
has been carried out with help from a small but loyal core of 
former liberation fighters turned thugs. Thugs and fraud cannot 
keep the 78-year-old Mugabe in power forever. Zimbabwe's 
recovery will have to wait for his departure.


Copyright @ 2002 the International Herald Tribune All Rights 
Reserved




Mugabe Wins Despite Biased Propaganda

 



  
TEHRAN TIMES INTL. DESK

  TEHRAN -- President Robert Mugabe easily won Zimbabwe's election 
on Wednesday despite biased propaganda unleashed against him by 
some Western countries, accusing him of being unfair towards the 
opposition.

  Results announced by Registrar-General Tobaiwa Mudede at 0800 
GMT showed Mugabe with 1,634,382 votes, well past the 50 percent 
of ballots cast that he needed to extend his 22-year rule for 
six more year.

  His challenger, former trade unionist Morgan Tsvangirai, trailed 
almost half a million votes behind. Mudede said 3.1 million 
people voted in the three-day election.

  There were fears of a violent reaction from Tsvangirai's 
supporters, and security forces were put on high alert and 
police put up road blocks on approach roads to the capital 
Harare.

  Australia said it feared violence if voters thought the election 
had been stolen. Canberra is a member of a Three-Nation 
Commonwealth task force monitoring the election.

  Tsvangirai, saying Mugabe has destroyed the economy of the once 
prosperous nation, accused the president of systematically 
stealing the election to hide his deep unpopularity with voters, 
Reuters reported.

  Mugabe's government has dismissed criticism of the poll, which 
Information Minister Jonathan Moyo called "exemplary".

  Western countries queued up to condemn the election in which the 
78-year-old president faced his first real challenge.

  The United States, condemning the reduction of polling stations 
in opposition urban strongholds, said the election was 
"seriously flawed" and riddled with irregularities.

  Australia and Britain led an unsuccessful call for commonwealth 
sanctions against Mugabe before the election.

  New Zealand said on Wednesday it was ready to impose sanctions 
against Zimbabwe if the commonwealth decided not to suspend the 
country after the vote.




Many fear violence after Zimbabwe vote

 



  HARARE, Zimbabwe Wellington Chinyama sat down in a barber's 
chair, unfolded his newspaper and without glancing up asked the 
young man trimming his hair the question that seems to be on 
virtually everyone's mind here: "So Joseph, have you prepared 
yourself for Zimbabwe's civil war?"

  As Zimbabweans go to the polls this weekend to re-elect or oust 
Robert Mugabe, the only leader the country has ever known, the 
question of who will win the election seems almost secondary to 
how the loser and his followers will respond.

  Surveys show the challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai, a trade union 
leader, ahead of Mugabe. But a surge in political violence and 
accusations that the governing party changed election laws to 
rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans, 
election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political 
party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final 
tally.

  "It does not take a vivid imagination to envision a scenario on 
the ground where either rioters or the military take to the 
streets in the days to come," an African diplomat said.

  Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government 
officials and military leaders that they would not allow this 
former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political 
party, the Movement for Democratic Change. In a television 
interview broadcast the other day, Didymus Mutasa, a spokesman 
for Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party, said that he and other 
veterans of the country's independence war found the prospect of 
a Tsvangirai government intolerable.

  "People have said being ruled by the MDC is being ruled by Ian 
Smith," Mutasa said, referring to the prime minister of 
white-ruled Rhodesia, as the country was known before gaining 
independence in 1980. "Under these circumstances, if there were 
to be a coup, we would support it very definitely."

  At least 34 people have died in political violence this year, 
almost all of them supporters of the Movement for Democratic 
Change. State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's 
government of numerous human rights violations during the 
election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF 
officials.

  A newspaper reported that Mugabe had put the armed forces on 
"high alert" and had recalled soldiers from neighboring Congo, 
where they have been deployed in that country's civil war. 
Police Commissioner Augustine Chihuri denied the reports.

  Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest 
between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to 
remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless 
young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages 
and unemployment.

  "If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that 
people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said 
Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter. "But if the MDC 
wins, I believe Mugabe will announce martial law, throw 
Tsvangirai in jail for plotting to kill him and send the army 
into the streets."

  Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other 
officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting 
to assassinate Mugabe. That charge is based largely on a heavily 
edited videotape in which Tsvangirai refers to the "elimination" 
of Mugabe.

  Tsvangirai was responding to a question posed by a Canadian 
publicist with whom he was meeting and who subsequently signed a 
contract with ZANU-PF. Political analysts say the charges may 
have laid the groundwork for Mugabe to jail Tsvangirai as a 
last-ditch effort to stay in power should he lose the election.

  But that outcome is certainly not a foregone conclusion. 
Opposition officials say that 22 of their polling agents have 
been abducted in the past week, and a surge in violent attacks 
in swing districts could persuade enough opposition supporters 
to vote for ZANU-PF to ensure Mugabe's victory.

  In addition, governing party officials have revised election 
laws and procedures in a manner that could change the outcome of 
the vote, according to independent election observers.

  ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend 
to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas 
believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of 
stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the 
opposition. Observers say that could produce long voting lines 
and discourage some Tsvangirai supporters from casting ballots.

  ZANU-PF election officials also plan to use civil service 
employees to monitor the vote-counting and bar independent 
monitors from nonprofit organizations from assisting in such 
routine tasks as transporting ballot boxes to counting stations. 
A residency requirement introduced last month bans registered 
voters from casting ballots if they cannot provide leases or 
utility bills in their names. That, according to foreign 
diplomats and Tsvangirai supporters, could disenfranchise 
hundreds of thousands of young opposition supporters who live 
with their parents.

  "Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this 
election," said John Makumbe, a political science professor at 
the University of Zimbabwe.

  Tsvangirai said at a news conference Thursday night that if he 
won the election, he would not prosecute Mugabe. That could ease 
pressure on Mugabe to remain in power to avoid prosecution for 
his government's attack in the 1980s in Matabeleland, the home 
of the Ndebele tribe, which at the time posed the most 
significant threat to his leadership. An estimate of the number 
of people killed in the operation ranges from 10,000 to 20,000.


Copyright @ 2002 the International Herald Tribune All Rights 
Reserved




   Harsh detention for Afghan prisoners

 



  Taleban and al-Qaeda prisoners flown from Afghanistan to an 
American naval base in the Caribbean are being held in tough 
conditions of detention.

  A temporary detention centre called Camp X-Ray has been set up 
at the base in Guantanamo Bay, an isolated US outpost on the 
edge of Fidel Castro's Cuba.

  The prisoners are being housed in cells measuring 1.8 by 2.4 
metres (six feet by eight feet) with open, chain-link walls, a 
concrete floor and wooden roof.

  They face intense interrogation by US officials anxious to track 
down Osama Bin Laden, the alleged mastermind behind the 11 
September suicide attacks on New York and Washington.

  The US authorities have not granted the detainees 
prisoner-of-war status, meaning they are not protected by the 
Geneva Convention.

  Washington wants military tribunals to try the prisoners, and 
the cases are expected to be heard outside the US.

  As the base is located outside sovereign territory, the 
prisoners have no legal rights under the US constitution, and no 
right of appeal to federal courts.

  
'Are they kennels?'

  Jeffrey Kofman, an American journalist who has visited the base, 
said the facility was "very, very minimal".

  The cells had concrete floors, wooden roofs and wire mesh walls. 
Prisoners had a foam mat to sleep on, two towels - one for 
washing, the other to use as a prayer mat - and some form of 
chamber pot, he said.

  "It was a far more bares bones facility than frankly I expected 
to see. They say they will be holding the detainees in cells, 
but really they are cages...

  "One person said: 'Are they kennels?', to which one of the 
military staff in charge said: 'No they're not kennels, they are 
cells, and they're within the bounds of the Geneva Convention. 
What we are operating is humane treatment, but we're not 
offering comfort'."

  
International concern

  The human rights group Amnesty International voiced concern 
about the "cages" used for accommodation, saying they would 
"fall below minimum standards for humane treatment".

  The first group to arrive - 20 prisoners described by US 
military officials as "the worst elements of al-Qaeda and the 
Taleban" - wore goggles covered with tape and had their hands 
tied. Some also wore leg shackles.

  They wore surgical masks as some prisoners had tested positive 
for tuberculosis and at least one prisoner was sedated.

  They will spend most of their time separated, although they will 
be allowed out of their cells in small groups for meals, showers 
and some recreation.

  
They will be allowed to pray according to their faith.

  
Mosquitoes

  The camp gets chilly at night and there are swarms of 
mosquitoes.

  The base - known by US servicemen as "Gitmo"- is surrounded by 
mangrove swamps, salt marshes and dense bush - and the sea is 
shark-infested.

  The camp perimeters - lit up at night - has watchtowers and two 
fences topped with razor wire constantly patrolled by heavily 
armed marines.

  
At night the camp is lit up with halogen floodlights.

  Members of a movement that tried to prevent women working may be 
disconcerted to find that some of their guards are women.

  "We have no intention of making it comfortable," Marine 
Brigadier-General Michael Lehnert told Reuters news agency. "It 
will be humane."

  Hundreds of marines and military police have been flown to 
Guantanamo Bay to expand the compound to house up to 2,000 
prisoners.

  American marines landed in Guantanamo during the 
Spanish-American war in 1898, and the base was established under 
a 1903 treaty.

  After Fidel Castro led the Communists to power in Cuba in 1959, 
then US President Dwight Eisenhower refused to relinquish the 
base despite strong objections from Havana.

  Although Washington continues to pay the rent - set 100 years 
ago at 2,000 gold coins a year, and now worth about $4,000 - Mr 
Castro refuses to cash the cheques.

  Cuban Frontier Battalion troops continue to watch their US 
counterparts along the 28-kilometre fence, but tension has 
diminished since the end of the Cold War.

  
Hunt continues

  American officials have named al-Qaeda and Taleban leaders 
killed or captured as frustration grows that some senior Taleban 
figures are reportedly slipping through the net.

  Among those who have not been questioned by the US military are 
three former Taleban ministers who turned themselves into the 
new Afghan authorities - only to be allowed to return to their 
homes.

  The most important is former Justice Minister Mullah Nuruddin 
Turabi - known to be close to Taleban leader Mullah Omar - 
former Defence Minister Mullah Ubaidullah and former Industry 
Minister Mullah Saadudin.

  US officials are eager to question the three, who they believe 
may have vital clues about the whereabouts of Mullah Omar and 
Osama Bin Laden.

  The hunt continues for Bin Laden himself and Mullah Omar, who is 
believed to have escaped by motorbike as thousands of Afghan 
soldiers closed in on his suspected hideout.

  Also on the wanted list are many more of Bin Laden's top 
lieutenants who are believed to have evaded capture. They 
include Ayman al-Zawahri, the Egyptian Islamic Jihad leader who 
is Bin Laden's close adviser and personal doctor.


Copyright @ BBC


Bush's Policy on Argentina Signals Shift in Approach

 



  WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 - Seven years ago this month, President Bill 
Clinton's economic advisers told him Mexico was hours away from 
economic default and perhaps chaos on the streets. Mr. Clinton 
ordered an unpopular multibillion-dollar bailout, over the 
objections of Congress, but with the support of a prominent 
Republican governor, George W. Bush of Texas.

  When Argentina barreled toward a similar default in recent 
weeks, it was Mr. Bush who had to make the bailout call - and 
his decision was to let Argentina suffer the consequences of its 
own economic mismanagement. His aides argue that the 
circumstances were somewhat different: Mexico appeared ready to 
make reforms but needed time and cash, while Argentina had not 
heeded repeated warnings that its policies were leading to 
financial disaster.

  Still, Mr. Bush's reaction to the biggest international economic 
crisis so far in his presidency is a telling example of a new - 
and perhaps risky - approach to the kind of national economic 
bankruptcies that dominated Washington's dealings with the 
world's emerging markets in the late 1990's.

  The Clinton administration, fearing "economic contagion," was 
willing to back loans to teetering governments in Thailand, 
Indonesia, South Korea and Russia. But Mr. Bush's aides have 
adopted a policy some call "tough love," meant to reverse the 
expectation in capitals around the world that if you are big 
enough, or strategically important, Washington will always find 
a way to prevent fiscal and political collapse.

  Mr. Bush promised just such a policy during his presidential 
campaign. But the first time his approach was tested, when 
Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national 
security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a 
well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the 
medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed. Washington 
joined in the bailout.

  "It's fair to say," one senior administration official noted 
during the last week, "that while we have been clear, we haven't 
always been consistent."

  The hard line on Argentina, White House and Treasury officials 
say, was calculated to send the message that under the Bush 
administration, the United States would be a reluctant financial 
firefighter and that the markets should not bet on a bailout. It 
is a message that Mr. Bush's aides said in interviews this week 
that they hoped would force officials of developing countries 
and foreign investors to work out their problems without relying 
as much on huge aid packages from the International Monetary 
Fund and from Washington, which became commonplace after Mexico.

  "It is a different approach, but we needed a different 
approach," said John B. Taylor, undersecretary of the Treasury 
for international affairs. "We want to follow a policy that does 
not bail out bondholders and improves the market over all."

  
There are other new aspects to the Bush policy.

  Treasury officials in the Clinton era never shied away from 
dispensing a steady stream of advice to countries on the 
condition that they would have to meet to get Western aid. In 
contrast, during the Argentina crisis, Treasury Secretary Paul 
H. O'Neill was nearly invisible, rarely commenting on the 
country's approaching default, or the violent protests that led 
to the resignation of President Fernando de la R?  Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F. 
to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the 
fund's demands for fiscal restraint. And now Washington's 
message to Argentina's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, is 
straightforward: Come up with a workable plan, and then we will 
talk.

  "President Bush never talked about specific steps he expected 
the Argentine government to take," said one White House official 
familiar with Mr. Bush's periodic calls and letters to Mr. de la 
R?d the series of his successors in recent weeks. "You won't 
find this administration having those kinds of conversations. 
Argentina has to come up with what works for them, and if we can 
support it, we will."

  Mr. Bush's approach carries considerable risk. There is every 
possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the 
free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the 
country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support 
over the last decade. Already there is considerable doubt that 
Argentina will now agree to the kind of hemispheric free-trade 
agreement that Mr. Bush himself, with Mr. de la R? his side, 
said last year was a major goal of his administration.

  Both the I.M.F. and the United States, the fund's largest 
shareholder, have come under some sharp criticism for denying 
new loans to Argentina after previously approving aid to the 
country. The last emergency loan was put together in August, 
with Mr. O'Neill's close supervision.

  The critics of Mr. Bush's decision to pull the plug on aid argue 
that the I.M.F. and the Bush administration were callous for 
abandoning an ally at a sensitive moment. And some argue that 
both the Clinton and Bush administrations should have acted 
sooner to steer Argentina away from its doomed efforts to defend 
a 1-to-1 peg of its peso to the dollar.

  But administration and I.M.F. officials respond that they aided 
Argentina for as long as they thought there was a reasonable 
chance that its political leaders were serious about reform. 
They pulled the plug, one senior administration official said, 
"only when it became clear that the collapse was going to happen 
sooner or later, and there was no use spending billions to get a 
few more weeks before the inevitable happened."

  Some longtime critics of the fund applauded the Bush 
administration's stance. Both left-wing anti-globalization 
activists and some conservative economists have argued that the 
fund became too interventionist during the Clinton years. That 
allowed investors to make reckless bets on the assumption that 
lending agencies would rescue them when things went wrong.

  "I am hopeful that we're in transition to a world in which 
countries and lenders learn more about risk," said Allan H. 
Meltzer of Carnegie Mellon University, who headed a 
Congressional panel two years ago that advocated sweeping 
changes at the I.M.F. and the World Bank. "You can't just keep 
throwing money at these problems and hope they will go away."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


Argentina's Chaos Raises New Doubts on Monetary Fund

 



  WASHINGTON, Dec. 21 - The deadly riots in Argentina, the 
collapse of its government and another multibillion dollar 
bailout gone awry have raised fresh questions about the 
effectiveness of the International Monetary Fund and the 
financial policies of the United States, the fund's leading 
shareholder.

  Latin American and European government leaders today joined 
protesters in Buenos Aires, Wall Street traders and financial 
experts in putting at least part of the blame for Argentina's 
problems on the lending agency and the Clinton and Bush 
administrations.

  Some say the monetary fund showed callousness by failing to give 
new aid to Argentina early this month, as the country's economic 
program, designed with I.M.F. approval, was forcing painful 
austerity measures on its citizens. Others say the fund made the 
opposite mistake, repeatedly offering loans to Argentina despite 
indications that the country's policies had become unworkable, 
delaying the day of reckoning.

  These criticisms, even if contradictory, increase pressure on 
the I.M.F. and the Bush administration to articulate a clear 
policy toward financial rescue efforts, which often come under 
fire even when they are judged successful.

  Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill came into office publicly 
denouncing multibillion dollar bailouts, saying that either they 
fail outright or they allow foreign governments to get away with 
bad policymaking and investors to get away with bad bets.

  In practice, however, the Bush administration has yet to take a 
clear stance on such bailouts and has made international 
financial policy a low priority.

  Peru's finance minister, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, complained today 
that the fund bungled its dealings with Argentina by adopting 
inconsistent policies that were at turns passive and inflexible. 
"The fund is partly to blame for this because the fund did not 
sound the alarm in time and then took a very hard line when 
things were incredibly difficult," he told Peruvian radio.

  Hubert Vedrine, the French foreign minister, assailed the I.M.F. 
for abandoning a longtime client and imposing "demands that have 
been excessive or at the wrong time." The French, who like the 
United States are significant fund shareholders, have called on 
the lending agency to step up its involvement to help Argentina 
recover.

  After some hand-wringing about jeopardizing the money of 
American "plumbers and carpenters," Mr. O'Neill supported a 
multibillion loan for Argentina in August. He has also backed 
two large rescue packages for Turkey, a strategic ally that has 
faced tough financial problems.

  When Argentina's crisis worsened in recent weeks, Bush 
administration officials did not take a firm position, allowing 
the I.M.F. to make the call on withholding additional loans, 
people involved in the fund's deliberations said.

  Even the harshest critics of the I.M.F. put most of the blame 
for Argentina's current plight on a succession of governments in 
Buenos Aires. But many say the monetary fund should have called 
government officials to account sooner.

  Argentina adopted a strict fixed- currency regime and overhauled 
its banks in the early 1990's. It tamed inflation and became, 
for a spell, a glowing economic success story.

  But subsequent governments allowed spending to grow out of 
control, building up a foreign debt that became impossible to 
maintain. Argentina also fell into a deep recession four years 
ago. The government beseeched the I.M.F. for help to stay 
solvent as it tried to work through its problems.

  Backed by both the Clinton and Bush administrations, the I.M.F. 
twice came to the rescue, beginning late last year.

  The idea was to help the country defend its fixed currency, 
which had become a political touchstone, while avoiding default 
on $132 billion in foreign debt, allowing it to continue good 
relations with foreign investors.

  The terms of the aid program were wrenching. The government 
agreed to slash spending during a deep recession to increase the 
chances of making debt payments on schedule.

  "If Argentina got its core economic policies right, it would 
have avoided this problem," said Charles Calomiris, a finance 
and economics professor at Columbia University who has been 
sounding the alarm about Argentina for months. "But the I.M.F. 
and both the Clinton and Bush administrations let them stay in 
denial. They all wanted the problem to fall on someone else's 
watch."

  It is always a tough call to cut off aid, Mr. Calomiris said. 
But he argued that by delaying, the fund helped Argentina dig 
itself into a deeper hole.

  "If you do not show leadership and make it happen early, then 
you face a catastrophe," he said.

  Michael Mussa, the I.M.F.'s chief economist until last spring, 
said the fund was justified in providing aid to Argentina late 
last year.

  But he said that he disagreed with the decision by the fund and 
the Bush administration to continue the aid program in August, 
when he said the situation in Argentina had likely deteriorated 
beyond repair.

  "The fund made a mistake in not saying no in August," Mr. Mussa 
said. "The situation might have been more controllable then."

  The difficulty, of course, is that such calls are much easier to 
make in hindsight. Mr. Mussa acknowledged that even when the 
political and economic situation in Argentina was more stable, a 
move to delay debt payments or devalue the currency ran the risk 
of rattling financial markets and even causing a financial 
implosion in the region.

  In contrast, by watching Argentina wrestle with its finances 
over a period of months, financial markets anticipated the 
possibility of a default. The chances of contagion are now 
viewed as minimal.

  Moreover, it is difficult to place blame for Argentina's 
economic program squarely on the fund when much of the policy 
was designed by Argentina itself, sometimes over the objections 
of the fund's economists.

  At an August meeting at I.M.F. headquarters, fund officials told 
Domingo Cavallo, Argentina's economy minister, that the country 
would be better off delaying debt payments.

  Argentina, however, was determined to pay its debts in full and 
keep its fixed currency in place, fulfilling what it viewed as a 
promise to its citizens and creditors who had been told for 
years that pesos were as good as dollars. It outlined strict 
fiscal policies that it claimed would allow it to meet its 
obligations.

  But by December, as Mr. Cavallo resorted to freezing bank 
accounts and raiding pension funds to find enough hard currency 
to make debt payments, collapse looked imminent. The fund 
decided to suspend aid for a program that appeared to have 
little chance of success.

  Though there were unique elements, Argentina's demise seems 
certain to add to the doubts about the wisdom of bailouts, 
doubts that have grown in recent years. Nearly every major 
financial rescue effort, including those in Mexico, Thailand, 
Indonesia, South Korea, Russia and Brazil, has come under 
intense scrutiny from the left and the right, albeit for widely 
varying reasons.

  Fund officials say privately that they cannot avoid financial 
bailouts altogether. The lesson of Argentina, they say, is that 
they need to find a way to say no before the people they are 
supposed to be helping take to the streets.



Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


Bush Plan Expected to Slow, Not Halt, Gas Emission Rise

 



  President Bush is set to announce a plan today calling for 
voluntary measures to slow but not halt the growth in emissions 
of heat-trapping gases linked to global warming, White House 
officials said last night.

  The climate proposal is Mr. Bush's response to the Kyoto 
Protocol, the 1997 treaty accepted but not yet ratified by all 
other large industrialized countries, which would require cuts 
in such emissions by 2010 to well below their 1990 levels. Mr. 
Bush rejected the treaty last March, calling its targets 
arbitrary, its schedule too costly to meet and its terms, which 
are not easily applied in large developing countries, unfair.

  The program he is to announce this afternoon would slow the rate 
of growth in emissions in relation to the growth of the overall 
economy. It would use $4.6 billion in tax credits over the next 
five years to encourage companies and individuals to limit those 
emissions.

  Utilities, for example, would get incentives to build 
power-generating windmills; homeowners would get new tax credits 
for buying solar panels or more efficient cars.

  The one thing the climate policy would not do is require 
anything of anybody, sticking with the position Mr. Bush has 
held for more than a year on the climate issue: that firm limits 
on the so-called greenhouse gases would drag down the economy.

  The administration's approach, he plans to say, is based "on the 
common-sense idea that sustainable economic growth is the key to 
environmental progress - because it is growth that provides the 
resources for investment in clean technologies," according to an 
advance text.

  On another emissions issue unrelated to climate, aides said Mr. 
Bush would call today for mandatory restrictions on three other 
kinds of pollutants from power plants: mercury, sulfur dioxide 
and nitrogen oxides. In contrast to proposals by 
environmentalists and many Democrats, however, the plan would 
delay such cuts until 2010 or later.

  Last night, administration officials called the voluntary 
approach on climate the most reasonable path for the time being. 
A senior administration official did say, however, that if 
insufficient progress was being made by 2012, there could be a 
move toward some kind of limits. "If we're not making progress 
toward our goal," he said, "we will be considering a full range 
of programs."

  Some environmental groups criticized this kind of checkup, 
saying it puts off any measuring of progress until well after 
Mr. Bush is out of office.

  Under the administration's proposed target, the growth rate of 
emissions of carbon dioxide would drop nearly 18 percent by 2012 
- to 151 metric tons for each $1 million in gross domestic 
product, from the current level of 183 metric tons.

  But environmental groups sharply criticized this kind of 
yardstick, saying that it merely reflects an existing trend 
toward using energy more efficiently and adding that as long as 
the economy grows, this would not result in emissions 
reductions.

  Alluding to the date of the speech, Jennifer Morgan, the climate 
policy director for the World Wildlife Fund, called it "a 
valentine to the coal and oil industry that will allow emissions 
to increase without any time frame, eternally."

  One provision of the new climate plan would be to greatly expand 
a program encouraging businesses to monitor and report their 
emissions of greenhouse gases. Those that participate, 
voluntarily, would gain credits that might eventually be used in 
a trading scheme similar to that used for other pollution.

  White House officials said this could prompt industries to 
change behavior, the same way similar reporting requirements 
instituted in the late 1980's resulted in big cuts in releases 
of toxic chemicals.

  Philip E. Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, 
a private lobbying group, criticized this approach, saying: "The 
president's global warming proposal appears to be another 
faith-based initiative: we should have faith that major 
corporations will line up to volunteer cuts in their carbon 
pollution. That approach has failed for a decade now, since the 
president's father set up the first voluntary program."

  And Myron Ebell, a climate policy expert at the Competitive 
Enterprise Institute, a private group whose free- market views 
are frequently embraced by industry, criticized the idea from 
the opposite ideological direction.

  "What looks like voluntary will actually be coercive," Mr. Ebell 
said.

  The president is leaving for Asia on Saturday and has been under 
pressure to present a climate plan before visiting Japan. Japan, 
which has avoided criticizing the administration over its 
rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush 
is concerned about the issue. Several experts on the treaty said 
that his decision to make the announcement now was very likely 
influenced by this situation.

  The proposed plan on nongreenhouse emissions from power plants - 
mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides - would impose 
mandatory limits but would allow companies to exceed them by 
buying credits from others that reduce pollution below required 
levels.

  There would be no similar limits on power plants' emissions of 
carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. In the face of lobbying 
from coal companies and utilities, Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign 
pledge last March to control the four plant emissions together 
and has shown no signs of reconsidering that idea.

  As hints of the emerging plan circulated in e-mail messages by 
environmental groups and conservative groups, it appeared that 
no one was particularly pleased.

  An official at an energy company that had been pressing the 
White House to revise power plant rules said the best news was 
that there was something finally on the table to discuss.

  "At least they're coming out with something," the official said. 
"It may not be what everyone wants, but it recognizes that the 
Senate is going to deal with climate on its power plant bill."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


Rumsfeld Defends U.S. Treatment of Detainees in Cuba

 



  WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over 
the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of 
Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct 
at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless 
armchair hyperbole.

  "I am telling you what I believe in every inch of my body to be 
the truth, and I have spent a lot of time on secure video with 
the people down there," he told reporters, referring to the 
United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where 158 
prisoners from the war in Afghanistan are being jailed. "I 
haven't found a single scrap of any kind of information that 
suggests that anyone has been treated anything other than 
humanely."

  Mr. Rumsfeld spoke in an unusual briefing that stretched over an 
hour in an attempt, he said, to "tap down some of this 
hyperbole." It was prompted by a rising tide of international 
criticism after the Defense Department released photographs over 
the weekend that showed some of the prisoners kneeling before 
their captors, their legs in shackles, their hands bound in 
manacles, their mouths covered by surgical masks and their eyes 
blinded by large goggles with black tape.

  His comments came as criticism swelled from abroad. Critics said 
the United States was using sensory deprivation and other 
psychological control techniques to weaken the prisoners so that 
interrogations would be more fruitful. The International 
Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not 
publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United 
States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against 
making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures, 
which were published worldwide.

  Amnesty International sought access to the prisoners in 
Guantanamo and said they should be allowed to have lawyers.

  "Keeping prisoners incommunicado, sensory deprivation, the use 
of unnecessary restraint and the humiliation of people through 
tactics such as shaving them are all classic techniques employed 
to break the spirit of individuals ahead of interrogation," the 
organization said.

  Several governments joined the chorus, saying the prisoners 
should be granted prisoner of war status under the Geneva 
Convention. Such status would accord them the highest level of 
protections.

  Javier Solana, the European Union foreign policy chief, said 
that despite the Sept. 11 atrocities, "changing our values and 
our way of life would be terrorism's first victory." The 
Netherlands also urged Washington to recognize the detainees as 
prisoners of war, saying, "In the fight, we need to uphold our 
norms and values."

  While debate raged elsewhere, Britain and Spain supported the 
United States. Prime Minister Tony Blair's office said the three 
British prisoners at the detention center, called Camp X-Ray, 
"had no complaints about their treatment." Spanish Foreign 
Minister Josep Pique said the Spanish government "does not have 
the slightest doubt regarding the position of the U.S. 
government."

  The warden at Camp X-Ray, Col. Terry Carrico, said he was 
determined at all times to maintain what he called "positive 
control" over the prisoners. Bill Nash, a retired Army major 
general and senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, 
said this amounted to "imposing on them a psychological sense of 
isolation, domination and futility, and trying to establish the 
conditions by which you can then reward them for information, as 
oppose to punish them."

  Mr. Rumsfeld said it was "probably unfortunate" that the 
photographs were released, at least without an explanation. He 
said the prisoners had been photographed in a holding area just 
before their restraints were removed and they were put in their 
cages.

  "If you want to think the worst about things, you can," he said. 
But he argued that whenever prisoners, especially those who are 
dangerous and suicidal, are transported, it only makes sense to 
lock them in restraints. "When they are being moved from place 
to place, will they be restrained in a way so that they are less 
likely to be able to kill an American soldier? You bet. Is it 
inhumane to do that? No. Would it be stupid to do anything else? 
Yes."

  It is not clear why the United States has not officially 
designated the detainees as prisoners of war, especially since 
Mr. Rumsfeld said they are essentially being treated as such.

  "They're in legal limbo," said Michael F. Noone, professor of 
military law at Catholic University. "The United States has to 
get moving on screening these people and determining whether or 
not they're P.O.W.'s. There is no explanation for the delay."

  Mr. Rumsfeld said the Pentagon's clear priority with the 
prisoners was to extract information from them to prevent future 
attacks. "These people are committed terrorists," he said. "We 
are keeping them off the street and out of the airlines and out 
of nuclear power plants and out of ports across this country and 
across other countries."

  And yet, officials at Guantanamo have said that no interrogation 
has taken place on the base and that the prisoners do not have 
lawyers.

  Asked what benefit the United States gets by not classifying the 
captives as prisoners of war, Mr. Rumsfeld said, "I don't know 
enough of the legal technicalities to answer your question. I 
know that the process of gathering the intelligence information 
has not been concluded."

  Mr. Rumsfeld said one of the complicating factors was that the 
Geneva Conventions give protection to prisoners from countries 
but not from terrorist organizations, like Al Qaeda, to which 
some of the prisoners apparently belong. "To give standing under 
a Geneva Convention to a terrorist organization that's not a 
country is something that I think some of the lawyers who did 
not drop out of law school as I did worry about as a precedent," 
he said.

  Officials have said the prisoners come from a range of 
countries, - Britain, Yemen, China, Saudi Arabia and Australia 
among them - and that has also complicated the legal picture.

  In Los Angeles, a federal district judge questioned today 
whether he had the authority to consider a challenge to the 
detention of the prisoners in Cuba.

  "I have grave doubts about whether I have jurisdiction," said 
the judge, A. Howard Matz. He spoke at a hearing on a petition 
filed on Sunday by a group of lawyers, clerics and professors 
who demand that the detainees be identified, taken before a 
court and told of the charges against them.



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


More Prisoners Detained in Guantanamo Bay Join Hunger Strike

 



  Strike Triggered by a TurbanAccording to military sources at the 
U.S. base, the hunger striker was first triggered on Wednesday 
when the guard took the turban off the detainee's head while he 
was still praying.

  The sources argued that it was against the rules of the prison 
because the turban could be used to conceal a weapon.

  Bush Criticized for Treating Detainees InhumanelyAs more inmates 
joined the hunger strike, some of them reportedly chanted 
rhythmically on Thursday. Prison officials have reportedly 
strengthened the already heavy security at the prison for 
precautions.

  The Bush administration has been under international criticism 
for not treating the detainees humanely. It recently bowed to 
international pressure to grant the Taliban prisoners the status 
of prisoner of war but still refused to cover al Qaeda prisoners 
with the same treatment.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved


U.S. Closely Monitoring Situation in Argentina

 



  The Bush administration was closely monitoring the situation in 
Argentina where escalating economic crisis led to a wave of 
bloody street violence and looting, the White House said on 
Thursday.

  "Argentina is a valued ally and friend, and the United States is 
monitoring developments in Argentina. We are concerned about the 
events," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer told reporters at a 
regular news briefing.

  Argentine President Fernando De la Rua declared a national state 
of siege Wednesday night and ordered additional security forces 
into the streets to control violence that left at least six 
people dead and hundreds wounded or arrested. It was Argentina's 
worst unrest in a decade.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved


Angry at Vote, Commonwealth Bars Zimbabwe

 



  LONDON, March 19 - Flanked by the presidents of South Africa and 
Nigeria, Prime Minister John Howard of Australia today announced 
a yearlong suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth, a group 
of 54 nations, mostly former British colonies. The unusual step 
was meant to punish President Robert Mugabe for his stewardship 
of elections this month that were widely criticized outside 
Africa as rigged.

  The two African leaders, Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and 
Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, maintained a cryptic silence while 
Mr. Howard spoke, endorsing the decision by their presence at a 
news conference but avoiding embroilment in a debate over 
whether they now view Mr. Mugabe's presidency as illegitimate.

  While less than an expulsion, the move still deepened the 
diplomatic isolation of Zimbabwe, which has already been 
battered by political violence, hunger, economic decline and the 
threat of labor unrest. It means Zimbabwean officials will be 
barred from meetings held by the Commonwealth, an organization 
that carries some cachet as an important club bridging the 
north-south divide.

  The suspension was decided by the three men, who met as a 
committee charged with deciding the Commomwealth's response. The 
decision, made at the headquarters in Marlborough House, has 
left two of the men facing an acute dilemma.

  Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo - both of whose countries have under 
past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth - 
are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was 
a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to 
democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration. 
Mr. Howard was chairman of the three-nation committee.

  The move avoids an open rift between its majority members in 
Africa and Asia, some of which have tended to side with Mr. 
Mugabe, and rich, white-ruled countries like Britain, Canada and 
Australia, which have criticized him. Yet it adds one more voice 
to those labeling Mr. Mugabe a pariah and increasing pressure on 
him to seek reconciliation, possibly through new elections.

  The opprobrium spread further today when Switzerland became the 
latest country to impose sanctions on Zimbabwe, "in view of the 
manipulation of the presidential elections and ongoing human 
rights violations," the Swiss government said.

  Under other restrictions, Mr. Mugabe and Zimbabwe's most senior 
leaders are already barred from travel to the United States and 
the European Union.

  "The committee has decided to suspend Zimbabwe from the councils 
of the Commonwealth for a period of one year with immediate 
effect," Mr. Howard said, reading the statement alone, 
apparently as a face-saving gesture to Mr. Mbeki, whose own 
election observers in Zimbabwe found the vote "legitimate."

  The response to Mr. Mugabe's behavior was seen by many outsiders 
as a token of South Africa's and Nigeria's own commitment to 
democracy as a way of fostering economic renewal. At a meeting 
in Monterrey, Mexico, for instance, the financier George Soros 
said today that the Zimbabwe elections "have cast doubt on the 
ability of the African states to create suitable conditions for 
private investment."

  If the Commonwealth had not suspended Zimbabwe - an act Mr. 
Howard saw as "at the severe end" of available punishments - 
such criticism would only have sharpened. Yet many African 
politicians, including Morgan Tsvangirai, the Zimbabwe 
opposition leader defeated in the election, had expressed doubt 
that the Commonwealth would take any action at all.

  The suspension was accompanied by suggestions for easing 
Zimbabwe's drastic food shortages and economic decline. The 
Commonwealth also supported moves to resolve the country's 
violent crisis over the seizure of white farmers' land, backing 
Mr. Mugabe in his commitment to redistribute territory among 
landless black Zimbabweans. This was apparently intended to keep 
the door open to dialogue.

  "Land is at the core of the crisis in Zimbabwe," Mr. Howard said 
in his statement.

  According to the statement, the leaders of South Africa and 
Nigeria will continue to talk to Mr. Mugabe about ways to lift 
the suspension.

  For all its critics say it is ineffective, the Commonwealth has 
nonetheless sought to project itself as an arbiter of democratic 
legitimacy among often delinquent members.

  In the 60's, white-ruled South Africa quit the Commonwealth 
rather than be suspended over apartheid; Nigeria was suspended 
in the 1990's during military rule because of the execution of 
the human rights activist Ken Saro Wiwa. Fiji has been suspended 
twice, once for 10 years. Pakistan has been suspended since the 
military coup two years ago that brought Gen. Pervez Musharraf 
to power.



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


Argentine Leader Quits as Economy Begins a Free Fall

 



  BUENOS AIRES, Dec. 20 - President Fernando de la R?signed 
today, halfway through his four-year term, swamped by violent 
protests and looting that erupted when his government failed to 
reverse a deepening economic crisis.

  The resignation letter, which was delivered to Congress late in 
the day, followed violent food riots and protests here and in 
several cities. At least five demonstrators were killed today, 
bringing the death toll to 21 since the protests began early 
Wednesday.

  The president had made a last- ditch effort to form a unity 
government today with the leading opposition party, but when 
that was rejected, he announced he would leave.

  Argentina, with widening budget deficits, is heavily indebted to 
foreign lenders and is battling to prevent more defaults. After 
a series of budget cuts and a patchwork of economic programs, 
the country lacks a coherent economic and monetary strategy, and 
has no consensus as to what should be done.

  Mr. de la R?resignation will put the country's immediate 
future in the hands of the moderate opposition party that 
controls Congress and had recently begun blocking many of the 
former president's policies.

  Ram?uerta, the president of the Senate, is to become 
Argentina's provisional president for at least 48 hours while 
the Congress decides how to prepare for new elections, which are 
likely sometime next year. Under the law, a new president should 
be installed within three months.

  But Congress can change that, and how it will play its hand will 
be largely left to opposition leaders, including a former 
president, Carlos Sa?nem, and Senator Eduardo Duhalde, who 
lost to Mr. de la R? the 1999 elections.

  Whoever takes power is expected to face the same tough choices 
that defeated the indecisive Mr. de la R?aced with recession 
and declining exports, some Wall Street analysts have predicted 
that Argentina will devalue its currency by unhinging the peso 
from its unusual one-for- one link to the dollar.

  While such a move would lower prices and spur growth by making 
the country's goods more attractive, it could also prove ruinous 
to millions of borrowers and to the nation's banking system 
because most loans in the country are repayable in dollars, not 
pesos.

  Mr. de la R?government collapsed with surprising rapidity, 
as the police fired shotguns at demonstrators in front of his 
palace, tear gas seeped into presidential offices and fires 
filled the grand boulevards and avenues of Buenos Aires with 
towers of black smoke.

  Thousands of demonstrators massed and set bonfires in front of 
the Congress and presidential palace throughout the day, until 
riot police, including some on horseback, stormed through the 
crowds this afternoon clubbing people while reinforcements fired 
water cannon and rubber bullets.

  Defiant crowds chanted "assassins, assassins, assassins," making 
the scenes of anarchy reminiscent of the turbulent days of 
military rule from 1976 to 1983. With the 5 deaths today, more 
than 1,000 demonstrators and looters were arrested. More than 50 
police officers were reported hurt in the disturbances in the 
capital alone.

  The violence today followed looting and rioting in 11 of 
Argentina's 24 provinces on Wednesday, and much damage to 
private businesses, especially food stores. Mr. de la R?eclared a state of siege for 30 days on Wednesday, giving him 
the right to suspend such Constitutional rights as freedom of 
assembly and speech, and giving him free rein to arrest at will.

  But his assumption of emergency powers appeared only to incite 
greater protests, beginning with an outpouring of thousands of 
people Wednesday night onto the streets of Buenos Aires, banging 
pots and pans and demanding Mr. de la R?resignation.

  In an attempt to save his government, Mr. de la R?4, went on 
national television on Wednesday night and apologized to the 
people for their disappointment in his administration's 
performance. He called on the opposition party, known as the 
Justicialist party, "to participate in a national unity 
government in which they can bring in their ideas and programs."

  When that call was rebuffed, Mr. de la R?ld his closest 
aides that he had no choice but to tape a televised resignation 
address.

  As soon as Nicolas Gallo, a senior personal aide to Mr. de la 
R?old reporters late this afternoon that the president had 
decided to resign, the streets began to calm. The text of the 
speech said the resignation was to "assure the peace."

  Mr. Gallo told reporters, "the president wanted to avoid more 
suffering." He said "history will judge" how Mr. de la R?
administration would be seen. "It's been a very sad day," he 
added.

  Most opposition party leaders have called for the devaluation of 
the peso and suspension of payment on the country's debts.

  They are also suggesting that business and consumer loans that 
are now valued in dollars be revalued into new peso amounts that 
would reduce the overall debt. The lower loan amounts would 
benefit individuals whose income is expected to decline by 30 
percent to 50 percent in a peso devaluation.

  This scheme is designed to help middle-class people with home 
mortgages and car loans that are currently valued in dollars.

  The losers would be bank lenders because the loans would not be 
fully repaid. Other losers could well be Argentine businesses 
that owe dollar debts abroad but collect revenue in pesos at 
home. It would take a greater number of devalued pesos to repay 
their dollar loans.

  "I believe the economy can be stabilized and grow during a 
transition government," said Governor Adolfo Rodr?ez Saa of 
San Luis Province, an influential member of the opposition.

  Mr. de la R?decline began in October 2000 with the 
resignation of his vice president, Carlos Alvarez, over the 
government's handling of charges that bribes were paid to 
opposition senators to pass a new labor law.

  Mr. de la R?ruling Alianza coalition of centrists and Social 
Democrats fractured, and his cabinet became a revolving door of 
officials and constantly changing economic policies.

  Then, in October, his coalition suffered a devastating defeat in 
legislative elections that gave the opposition control of both 
houses of Congress.

  Cabinet officials on Wednesday publicly accused the Buenos Aires 
governor, Carlos Ruckauf, a former vice president and one of the 
most powerful leaders of the opposition, of instigating the 
looting to overthrow the government.

  During an emergency meeting of the cabinet on Wednesday, 
ministers debated whether to openly confront Governor Ruckauf 
with charges of treason. Some aides to Mr. de la R?gued that 
the federal government should seize Governor Ruckauf's Buenos 
Aires provincial police force in order to control the rioting 
that surged in the working-class neighborhoods that surround the 
capital city.

  But Mr. de la R?sitated, and instead declared a state of 
siege, which failed to bring peace. Now Mr. Ruckauf is 
considered a major presidential contender.



Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


Finance Minister of Argentina Resigns Post

 



  The uncertainty of Argentina's precarious financial situation 
deepened yesterday when Daniel Marx, the finance secretary, 
resigned.

  Mr. Marx stepped down as Argentina paid $700 million in 
short-term debt owed to local banks by forcing pension funds to 
buy government bonds. The payment was the first of two in 
December that would hold off a default on its public debt.. 
Argentina has been struggling to contain its public debt, now 
totaling about $132 billion, after four years of recession.

  In discussing his decision, Mr. Marx suggested that it was time 
for someone else to oversee the government's negotiations with 
its creditors. "It's a cycle," he said. "I had also some 
personal things to deal with."

  Mr. Marx added that he would still work with the government, in 
a capacity that had not yet been formalized. "I agreed to 
continue to work on the national debt issues for Argentina," he 
said.

  In the last few weeks, working with the economy minister, 
Domingo Cavallo, Mr. Marx had been trying to persuade 
Argentina's foreign creditors to accept lower interest rates on 
existing debts. Domestic creditors already agreed, under some 
duress, to swap roughly $40 billion in obligations for new 
loans. Mr. Marx said that his foreign consultations had been 
proceeding "according to schedule."

  There was no doubt, however, that Mr. Marx's job had recently 
become tougher. The International Monetary Fund decided last 
week to delay the release of $1.3 billion in aid, which is 
needed to cover a budget shortfall. During the last few months, 
political infighting has eroded the government's ability to 
adhere to the zero-deficit rule favored by the I.M.F. and 
promised by Mr. Cavallo.

  Mr. Marx's resignation also followed a national strike on 
Thursday by union members, shopkeepers and unemployed workers, 
which brought the country close to a standstill. The strikers 
were protesting federal budget cuts and restrictions on 
withdrawals from bank accounts.

  Mr. Cavallo instituted the banking controls on Dec. 1 to stave 
off a run on Argentina's banks. Depositors who worried that the 
peso's fixed one-to-one exchange rate with the dollar was about 
to be broken by a devaluation, despite Mr. Cavallo's insistence 
to the contrary, were withdrawing dollars from bank accounts. A 
sudden, widespread drop in deposits threatened to choke economic 
activity and worsen the country's financial troubles.

  The controls were a sign of the financial pressures on 
Argentina, according to Vincent Truglia, an analyst at Moody's 
(news/quote). "They were indicative of the very difficult 
situation that the country was in and continues to be in," he 
said.

  Mr. Marx declined to say in an interview whether he had favored 
imposing the restrictions.

  Mr. Marx became finance secretary in December 1999 after a 
career in private finance and a stint on the board of 
Argentina's central bank. The finance secretary is effectively 
the economy minister's deputy, with specific responsibility for 
the public debt.

  Mr. Marx kept his job through the resignation and replacement of 
two economy ministers, Jose Luis Machinea and Ricardo 
Lopez-Murphy, and the return of Mr. Cavallo to government. His 
technical knowledge and strong relations with Argentina's 
foreign creditors won him considerable respect at home and 
abroad.

  Mr. Marx is known for favoring market-based rather than 
regulatory solutions to economic problems, a reputation shared 
by Julio Dreizzen, who resigned as finance undersecretary on 
Oct. 29, citing personal reasons.

  Mr. Marx's departure may pave the way for Miguel Kiguel, an 
economist from the Justicialist opposition party, to join Mr. 
Cavallo's team. On Thursday, Argentina's president, Fernando de 
la Rua  met with Carlos Sa?nem, a former president and 
leader of the Justicialists, to discuss economic strategy. The 
appointment of Mr. Kiguel to succeed Mr. Marx may be seen as a 
way to bring the Justicialists into Mr. De La Rua's ruling 
coalition, forming a sort of national unity government to 
address the economy.



Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


Six days that shook Venezuela

 



  CARACAS (AFP) - Here are the main events of the crisis that 
shook Venezuela over the past six days, in which at least 41 
people were killed and 323 were injured:

  Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike 
by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company, 
demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed 
by President Hugo Chavez.

  Wednesday, April 10: Union leaders extend the strike for 24 
hours because of what they call Chavez's `aggressive' and 
`intolerant' response to their demands. The strike is later made 
indefinite.

  - Oil exports, which account for 80 per cent of Venezuela's 
foreign revenues, are threatened as the strike stops production 
at the country's major refineries.

  Thursday, April 11: Some 50,000 people, including business and 
union leaders, mass to demand Chavez's resignation. The 
government urges supporters to back Chavez.

  - Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television 
networks opposed to him.

  - Pro-government and opposition demonstrators face off in 
Caracas. At least 15 people are killed and almost 100 are 
wounded.

  - A group of 10 top military officials declare their opposition 
to Chavez.

  
- Leading military officials in the Chavez government resign.

  Friday, April 12: Army commander General Efrain Vazquez 
announces that Chavez wants to resign.

  - Business leader Pedro Carmona replaces Chavez as the new 
President, dissolves the National Assembly, dismisses the 
Supreme Court, revokes 49 controversial Chavez decrees and 
announces Presidential elections in one year.

  - Latin American leaders meeting in Costa Rica for a trade 
summit denounce Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order.

  Saturday, April 13: In Washington, the Organization of American 
States says it is prepared to apply against Venezuela a charter 
requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy.

  - Pro-Chavez rioting breaks out in Caracas and other parts of 
country.

  - The commander of Venezuela's paratrooper brigade - Chavez's 
old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim 
government.

  - Chavez is transferred from an army base in Caracas to the 
island of Orchila, in the Caribbean Sea.

  - Thousands of Chavez supporters march towards the Presidential 
palace.

  
- Carmona takes refuge at Tiuna Fort, southwest of Caracas.

  - Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is 
conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and 
allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.

  - Carmona announces the restoration of the National Assembly, as 
Chavez cabinet members move into the Presidential palace and 
hold a meeting.

  - Carmona resigns the interim presidency, and Chavez's 
vice-President, Diosdado Cabello, takes over as acting 
President. Carmona is arrested along with his cabinet and 
general staff. Cabello promises to restore constitutional order.

  Sunday: Chavez leaves Orchila Island aboard a helicopter and 
heads to Caracas.

  - Chavez officially re-takes the presidency in an emotional 
Presidential palace ceremony at 4:30 am (0830 GMT). He then 
calls for peace, calm, and `the unity of the country.'

  - Emergency workers say that in total, at least 41 people have 
been killed and 323 injured in rioting around the country since 
Thursday.


U.S. Refuses to Recognize Mugabe Government

 



  U.S. President Bush said Wednesday that flaws in Zimbabwe's 
election will prevent the United States from recognizing the 
government's claim that incumbent Robert Mugabe was the winner.

  Bush told a news conference that the United States is consulting 
with other countries to decide how "to deal with this flawed 
election."

  Bush suspended U.S. entry privileges for Mugabe, his family or 
senior members of his government.

  He also denied entry to those who received "significant 
financial benefit" from dealings with Zimbabwean officials who 
carried out Mugabe's policies.

  U.S. officials said the administration may freeze assets of 
Zimbabwean officials involved in the alleged rigging of the 
democratic process.

  Another possibility is the banning of commercial export licenses 
of defense articles and services.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved




U.S. Begins First Airlift of Prisoners

 



  WASHINGTON, Jan. 10 - A C-17 Globemaster cargo plane carrying 20 
heavily guarded Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners left a Marine 
Corps base in southern Afghanistan today on its way to the 
United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the first wave 
of hundreds of detainees who will be held there.

  The Pentagon provided few details about the flight, but senior 
military officials said more than 40 specially trained military 
police officers guarded the prisoners on the flight, which was 
expected to make one stop before reaching Cuba, possibly as 
early as Friday morning.

  The prisoners, their hands and feet shackled and their heads 
covered by hoods, were loaded single file onto the plane at 
Kandahar Airport. Pentagon officials said some prisoners might 
also be sedated during the more-than-20-hour flight, but it was 
not clear whether that had happened.

  A Pentagon official said earlier this week that the United 
States did not consider the detainees prisoners of war, but that 
they were still being afforded the protections under the Geneva 
Convention guidelines.

  At Guantanamo Bay, the prisoners will be taken to a makeshift 
detention center known as Camp X- Ray, where they will be locked 
in 6- by-8-foot cages made of concrete and chain-link fence to 
await intensive interrogation and, possibly, trial before 
military tribunals.

  As workers prepared the camp in Cuba for as many as 2,000 
prisoners, search crews in Pakistan continued to comb the 
wreckage of a Marine Corps tanker plane that crashed on 
Wednesday in southwestern Pakistan. Seven marines died in the 
fiery accident.

  Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said today that there 
was no evidence that the crash had been caused by hostile fire.

  Pentagon officials also said today that the United States was 
preparing to send a force of more than 100 soldiers, many of 
them Special Operations forces, to the Philippines to help train 
Filipino troops to fight Muslim militants from the Abu Sayyaf 
group.

  Though the American forces are expected to be involved initially 
in advising and training Filipino counterterrorist units, senior 
American military officials have said they could become involved 
in direct military action if the Philippine government requested 
it.

  Amnesty International issued a statement today saying that 
sedating prisoners or shackling them for an entire flight would 
violate international standards prohibiting "cruel, inhuman or 
degrading" treatment.

  Mr. Rumsfeld said today that he did not know how the prisoners 
would be restrained during the flight. But he defended the use 
of strong measures, saying the Pentagon had closely studied 
violent uprisings by Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners held in the 
northern Afghan city of Mazar- i-Sharif and in Pakistan.

  About 20 minutes after the C-17 lifted off from the base at 
Kandahar Airport, marines came under small- arms fire near one 
of the runways. No one was injured and the identify of the 
snipers remained unknown tonight, military officials said.

  Military officials also said John Walker Lindh, the American who 
was captured with Taliban forces near Mazar-i-Sharif, was not 
among the prisoners transferred today. Mr. Walker is still being 
held aboard the assault ship Bataan in the Arabian Sea, the 
officials said.

  American forces in Afghanistan were holding a total of 371 
prisoners today, including 351 at Kandahar and 19 at Bagram air 
base north of Kabul. But the number keeps rising as American 
military and intelligence officials continue interviewing 
thousands of prisoners held by anti-Taliban militias.

  Camp X-Ray has cells for about 100 detainees, and will soon be 
expanded to hold 220. During the next few months, military work 
crews will build permanent facilities for as many as 2,000 
prisoners.

  Mr. Rumsfeld declined to discuss details about the growing 
American involvement in the Philippines, where Abu Sayyaf 
guerrillas have been battling government troops in the southern 
island of Basilan. The rebels, who have been linked to Al Qaeda 
in the past, are holding two American hostages for ransom.

  But earlier this week, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D. 
Wolfowitz said that American Special Operations forces might 
become involved in "direct support of Philippine military 
operations," though he added that the government seemed 
"anxious" to do the job itself.

  "There's no question that we believe that if they could clear 
the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a 
small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network," Mr. Wolfowitz 
said.

  In November, President Bush promised to give the Philippines a 
$100 million antiterrorism aid package that would include 
weapons, training and shared intelligence. Since then, the 
United States has sent an array of equipment to the Philippine 
military, including a C-130 cargo plane, 30,000 M-16 rifles and 
8 UH- 1 Huey helicopters.

  In eastern Afghanistan, American B-1 and B-52 bombers dropped 
precision-guided weapons on the sprawling Al Qaeda training camp 
at Zhawar Kili near the Pakistan border today for the sixth time 
in just over a week.

  Senior military officials have said they are increasingly 
concerned that there are other equally sophisticated and 
well-fortified underground complexes elsewhere in Afghanistan 
that could become guerrilla bases for remnants of the Taliban 
and Al Qaeda forces.

  At the Pentagon, Mr. Bush signed a $318 billion military 
spending bill today for the 2002 fiscal year. "Today more than 
ever we also owe those in uniform the resources they need to 
maintain a very high state of readiness," Mr. Bush said. "Our 
enemies rely upon surprise and deception. They used to rely upon 
the fact that they thought we were soft. I don't think they 
think that way anymore."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


Mugabe Predicts Victory in Zimbabwe's Election

 



  Zimbabwe's incumbent President Robert Mugabe Saturday predicted 
victory in the country's two- horse presidential race, saying 
that he will accept the outcome of the election because he will 
have defeated Morgan Tsvangirai of the opposition Movement for 
Democratic Change (MDC).

  Looking tired but blithesome after more than a month of daily 
election campaigns throughout the southern African country, 
Mugabe cast his vote in a weekend presidential poll, in which he 
is facing a serious challenge from his main rival Tsvangirai.

  The Zimbabwean veteran leader, who has been in power since the 
country gained independence from Britain in 1980, was 
accompanied to the polling station at a school in the poor 
suburb of Highfield in the capital Harare by family members, 
including two children.

  He told journalists after casting his ballot that he was more 
than confident of winning the election.

  "I will accept the results more than anything because I will 
have won," said Mugabe.

  He said those who thought the election process would be rigged 
were supporters of the MDC party, adding that they were 
prejudging and wanted to direct the process.

  Tension has risen sharply in Zimbabwe in recent months, after 
long and sometimes violent election campaigns. The MDC party has 
accused Mugabe of using violence and other electoral 
manipulation to rig the poll.

  While defying international pressure to back down from his 
controversial land reforms, Mugabe has said he needs a new six- 
year mandate to complete the reforms.

  Under these reforms, the Zimbabwean government has taken over 
excess and idle farms from white farmers, who own the bulk of 
the country's arable land, to resettle landless peasants.

  Nearly 500,000 people have been resettled since the beginning of 
last year.

  However, the program has drawn sharp international rebuke, 
particularly from former colonial power Britain, but Mugabe has 
vowed to press ahead with the reforms.

  The European Union imposed sanctions on Mugabe and 19 of his 
close associates last month, while the United States took the 
same move, accusing Mugabe of violating human rights and 
cracking down on the opposition, the media and judiciary.

  The controversial land reform is the pillar of Mugabe's 
electoral strategy, which political analysts say could work 
either way.

  In Mugabe's view, the March election is a new chapter in his 
long struggle against colonial rule, which he led from the early 
1960s until the country's independence.

  "We have to deliver and safeguard the most important heritage to 
the young generation - land - which was taken from our 
forefathers by force," he told a recent rally.

  Mugabe even talked about his desire to keep safeguarding 
Zimbabwe's sovereignty and land in spirit when he dies, a dream 
which the veteran leader said forced him to sacrifice a bright 
teaching career in the 1950s to lead his compatriots out of 
colonial rule.

  But that ambition would be fully tested at the ballot box this 
weekend.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved




Japan, U.S. Differ Over Global Warming Issues

 



  Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and visiting U.S. 
President George W. Bush differed over the Kyoto Protocol and 
how to prevent global warming but agreed to cooperate on that 
issue.

  Bush repeated his rejection of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol aimed 
atcurbing global warming, and pushed for the alternative he 
announced last week.

  Koizumi, meanwhile, called the new U.S. plan "a very 
constructive proposal," but asked for more efforts from the 
UnitedStates.

  "It is for the U.S. to decide whether to take part in the 
protocol or not, but I hope we will continue with our efforts so 
we can move in the same direction," said Koizumi, who supports 
theKyoto Protocol.

  "Both the economy and the environment can be improved 
together.We'd like to see further efforts on the part of the 
U.S.," the Japanese leader added.

  Bush rejected the Kyoto pact last March, saying that it would 
hurt U.S. economic growth.

  The U.S. president announced an alternative proposal last 
week,calling for voluntary limits on greenhouse gas emissions by 
companies in accordance with economic growth instead of 
mandatory reduction targets presented in the Kyoto pact.

  The proposal is criticized by environmentalists as ineffective 
for solving global warming and warn that under the plan U.S. 
greenhouse gas emissions will continue to rise.

  In Monday's summit talks, Bush and Koizumi agreed to cooperate 
together with other countries, including developing nations, on 
the issue of global warming.

  Japan and the U.S. can cooperate over the development of new 
technologies in the field and that such technologies will help 
notonly the environment but also economic development, they 
agreed.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved


Taiwan Caucus a US Provocation: Commentary

 



  On April 9, the 23rd anniversary of the United States ' 
troublemaking Taiwan Relations Act, the US Congress is due to 
unveil a 70-member Taiwan caucus.

  Most congressional caucuses are issue-based or for particular 
racial groups but this one will be devoted solely to Taiwan, an 
inalienable part of China.

  It is claimed that the caucus will serve as an official channel 
for legislators from both the United States and the island to 
exchange ideas.

  Such a provocative move will obviously overshadow the renewed 
Sino-US relations. On a more dangerous level, it may provide 
fodder to Taiwan's military forces and play into the hands of 
Taiwan separatist extremists.

  One of the group's goals is to promote US military ties with 
Taiwan.

  This comes at a time when there have been conspicuous signs of 
ever-increasing US-Taiwan military ties.

  In mid-March, the US side granted Taiwan "Defence Minister" Tang 
Yiau-ming a visa so he could attend a conference sponsored by US 
military contractors in Florida. On the sidelines of the 
conference, he met senior Bush administration officials 
including Deputy Defence Secretary Paul Wolfowitz and Assistant 
Secretary of State James Kelly.

  On March 22, Admiral Dennis Blair, commander-in-chief of the US 
Pacific Command, told the House Armed Services Committee that 
the United States and Taiwan can maintain a military balance 
across the Taiwan Straits if both sides continue modernizing 
their armed forces.

  It seems that this so-called military balance is what Taiwan 
leader Chen Shui-bian wants.

  Last Wednesday when receiving a special delegation from the US 
House of Representatives, Chen said that the strong support of 
the US Congress - which led to US arms sales to Taiwan in April 
last year - ensured a balanced cross-Straits military situation 
and peace in the Taiwan Straits.

  "President Bush reaffirmed the US promises to all Taiwanese and 
repeatedly declared he would abide by the Taiwan Relations Act - 
to provide Taiwan with the necessary protection against 
Beijing," Chen was quoted by the Taipei Times as saying.

  
In most cases, those who sow the wind will reap a whirlwind.

  The robust military build-up may not bring the so-called balance 
but menace instead cross-Straits peace and stability.

  Helping Taiwan build its military muscle will only foment 
pro-independence forces. Since the latest remarks and events may 
give these forces the impression that the United States is on 
their side and ready to provide military protection, they may 
become provocative enough to push the island to the edge.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved


Venezuela's Chief Forced to Resign; Civilian Installed

 



  CARACAS, Venezuela, April 12 - A transitional government headed 
by a leading businessman replaced President Hugo Chavez today, 
hours after military officers forced him to resign. It was a 
sudden end to the turbulent three-year reign of a mercurial 
strongman elected on promises to distance his country from the 
United States while uprooting Venezuela's old social order.

  Mr. Chavez, 47, a firebrand populist who had said he would 
remake Venezuela to benefit the poor, was obligated to resign in 
a meeting with three military officers about 3 a.m. today after 
large street protests on Thursday in which at least 14 people 
were killed by gunmen identified as his supporters.

  Early this morning, Mr. Chavez, in military fatigues and the 
trademark red beret of his left-leaning movement, was driven off 
to the Fort Tiuna army base in Caracas, where he was reported to 
be in custody.

  Pedro Carmona Estanga, the head of Venezuela's most important 
business association, was installed as interim president at a 
ceremony at 6 p.m. He promised that the new government would 
adhere to "a pluralistic vision, democratic, civil and ensuring 
the implementation of the law, the state of law."

  
Elections will be held within a year, officials said.

  The Bush administration laid the blame for Mr. Chavez's 
overthrow firmly with the ousted leader. Officials portrayed the 
ouster as a victory for democracy, even though Mr. Chavez was a 
legitimately elected president.

  "We know that the action encouraged by the Chavez government 
provoked this crisis," said Ari Fleischer, the White House 
spokesman. The Chavez government, he added, suppressed a 
peaceful demonstration and fired on unarmed protesters.

  However, Latin American leaders at a summit meeting in Costa 
Rica criticized Mr. Chavez's ouster as an "interruption of the 
constitutional order."

  A former army paratrooper who won office in 1998, Mr. Chavez 
presided over a stormy era when he seized control of the 
legislature, confronted the old-line political elite and steered 
the country into an alliance with Cuba.

  Mr. Carmona, the president of Fedeca-iras, a business 
association, said early today that Mr. Chavez had "presented his 
resignation." He spoke flanked by military officers who had 
rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday night, the third day of 
a general strike called by his opponents.

  On the streets of this sprawling capital, opponents of the 
government took to the streets in the early morning hours, 
honking horns and waving the gold, blue and red of the 
Venezuelan flag. El Universal, a leading newspaper here, hailed 
the end with these words, "It's over!"

  The interim government quickly moved to undo Mr. Chavez's 
policies, dissolving the National Assembly controlled by his 
supporters, firing members of the Supreme Court and changing the 
country's official name back to the Republic of Venezuela. Mr. 
Chavez had renamed the country the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela.

  In addition, the interim government repealed 49 economic laws 
passed by the Chavez-controlled National Assembly last year, 
legislation that business leaders feared would damage the 
economy.

  While pledging to hold presidential elections within 365 days, 
officials said that Mr. Carmona, who had been a leader in the 
protest movement against Mr. Chavez, will not be able to run.

  Mr. Carmona named new ministers, including two active-duty 
military officers who rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday 
night. He also named retired Brig. Gen. Guaicaipuro Lameda to 
head Petr?s de Venezuela, the huge state-owned oil company, 
which exports most of its oil to the United States.

  Mr. Chavez had fired Mr. Lameda in February and appointed a 
left-leaning ally in his place along with five board members 
close to his government, enraging thousands of office workers at 
the company.

  Mr. Carmona said that operations would return to normal at the 
oil company. It had been crippled when office and production 
workers began staging work slowdowns last week in protest.

  "Venezuelan society has reached a consensus to find a way 
forward, a way that necessitated a transitional government that 
guarantees the reestablishment of democracy," Mr. Carmona told 
reporters

  Mr. Carmona said that the transitional government was being 
formed with "the consensus of civil society and also from the 
military."

  Cuba called the change-over a coup and urged other countries to 
distance themselves from the new government. President Fidel 
Castro and Mr. Chavez had formed a close friendship.

  The interim government today ended Mr. Chavez's policy of 
offering oil to Cuba under terms favorable to Havana.

  Mr. Chavez's daughter, Mar?Gabriela, speaking in an interview 
on state television in Cuba, said that her father had not 
resigned. In a phone conversation Friday morning, just before he 
fell from power, he told her, "I am a jailed president," she 
said.

  The attorney general, Isa? Rodr?ez, also said Mr. Chavez had 
not resigned, but was forced out by military officers.

  President Vicente Fox of Mexico took a strong stand, saying his 
country would not recognize Venezuela's new government until 
elections were held. Diplomatic relations between the two 
countries, however, would continue.

  American officials praised the Venezuelan military and the 
police for defying Mr. Chavez, as well as television stations 
and other media outlets that continued to function despite 
government orders to shut down.

  "We wish to express our solidarity with the Venezuelan people 
and look forward to working with all democratic forces in 
Venezuela to ensure the full exercise of democratic rights," 
said Philip T. Reeker, a State Department spokesman.

  For now, the government focused on clearing up the events 
leading to the violence of Thursday afternoon, remembering the 
fallen and searching for those who were responsible. Mr. 
Chavez's interior minister, Ram?odr?ez Chac? was taken 
into custody, and the police were looking for a strong Chavez 
supporter, Freddy Bernal, the mayor of a district of Caracas.

  Security forces, meanwhile, searched the homes of members of the 
Bolivarian Circles, neighborhood groups that were formed by Mr. 
Chavez's government and that were accused by the interim 
government of responsibility in the shootings.

  Television broadcasts on Thursday showed several men in 
plainclothes firing semiautomatic handguns from a bridge over a 
busy street in downtown Caracas. Among the crowd of assailants 
were people in red berets and T-shirts bearing the name of Mr. 
Chavez's movement.

  Mr. Carmona said that "justice must be done" for the families of 
those killed. He promised that they would receive government 
benefits.

  Among Mr. Carmona's most pressing tasks now will be to assuage 
concerns in other countries about how Mr. Chavez's reign ended 
and deal with the polarization between rich and poor that 
divides this country, analysts familiar with Venezuela said.

  "The goal for his successors is to effectively tackle the 
pressing socio-economic issues that brought Chavez to power with 
so much popular support," said Russell Crandall, a Latin America 
specialist at Davidson College in North Carolina. "Chavez was 
right about the problems he saw in Venezuela. He was wrong about 
the solutions and the Venezuelan people made that very clear."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


   Argentina braces for currency fall

 



  BUENOS AIRES - Nostalgia runs deep in Argentina. Even before its 
faltering economy produced an epic-sized default, and the 
country was thrust into its worst crisis since democracy was 
restored in 1983, Argentines were obsessed with their past 
triumphs.

  But now a different variety of nostalgia appears to be emerging. 
Some call it the Ford Falcon syndrome, a reference to the 
classic gas-guzzler that inefficient Argentine automakers 
continued to turn out in droves 20 years after it disappeared 
from US showrooms.

  The man whom some economists say is leading the step backward in 
time is the country's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, 
Argentina's fifth in two weeks. After four years of crippling 
recession, Duhalde and others are questioning whether 
Argentina's decade-long pursuit of free market reforms is the 
right solution.

  With his appointment by Congress last Wednesday to finish the 
two years left in the term vacated by ex-President Fernando de 
la R?he Peronist Duhalde is now promoting a number of 
emergency measures that would turn back the clock on liberal 
economic reforms.

  On Friday, President Duhalde asked Congress for broad new powers 
to end the country's decade-old currency regime that pegs the 
peso to the US dollar, to intervene in the banking system, to 
institute price controls, and to protect local industry and 
jobs. It was approved overwhelmingly by the lower house of 
Congress late Saturday and was expected to be passed by the 
Senate yesterday.

  Everyone from the International Monetary Fund in Washington to 
the traditional protectionists in Buenos Aires thought 
devaluation was necessary, if painful. But some analysts are 
concerned that Duhalde will follow it up with a return to the 
protectionism and failed policies that dominated the country's 
economy for half of this past century, until ex-President Carlos 
Menem changed course last decade and ushered in an era of 
stability.

  "He must think he can defy gravity, because he's pursuing the 
same crash course that Argentines and the rest of Latin America 
rejected a decade ago," says Christopher Ecclestone, head of 
investment boutique Buenos Aires Trust.

  Duhalde's embrace of the past can be partly explained by the 
nature of the Peronists themselves, whom Argentine literary 
giant Jorge Luis Borges once referred to as neither good nor 
bad, just incorrigible.

  The party, founded by Gen. Juan Domingo Peron in the 1940s, has 
long dominated Argentine politics, thanks to a deft mix of 
populist policies, nationalist rhetoric, and political 
patronage. A weekend poll by Aresco consultancy showed 52 
percent of Argentines "highly" in favor of Duhalde's stated 
economic plans and another 34 percent giving him "medium" 
approval - an indication of public confidence.

  But at a time when the country is desperate for investment and 
international aid to prevent an economic crisis from exploding 
further, it is unclear how far Duhalde could actually turn back 
the clock even if he wanted to.

  For starters, there's a wariness among economists that an 
expected 30 to 40 percent devaluation could spark a return to 
the chaotic days of the late 1980s, when 5,000-percent inflation 
was rampant. Already, everything from bread to computer parts 
has been marked up by as much as 20 percent in anticipation of 
the devaluation.

  To contain inflation and fill an expected $11 billion budget 
deficit this year, government officials say a rescue package of 
at least $15 billion is needed from the IMF and other lenders. 
Otherwise, the country's cash-strapped banks, which are being 
forced to accept lesser-valued pesos for loans made almost 
entirely in dollars, will collapse.

  But few expect the government's plan for reviving the country's 
moribund economy to elicit much support abroad. In fact, quite 
the contrary.

  Already a swarm of powerful lobbies representing foreign 
companies have descended on Buenos Aires to fight government 
plans to introduce price and capital controls. The government is 
also taking heat for its plans to violate privatization 
contracts signed a decade ago and unilaterally lower the rates 
mostly foreign-owned utilities can charge for public services 
like water and gas.

  "He's not just steering the economy into disaster, but he's 
breaking fundamental concepts like right to savings and the rule 
of law," says Abel Viglione, senior economist at local think 
tank Fiel. "No matter what economic policy is in place, that 
sort of trust takes several years, if not an entire generation, 
to rebuild."

  But the stiffest opposition may yet come from the Argentines 
themselves. Despite widespread fatigue caused by successive 
austerity drives, such as limiting bank withdrawals to $1,000 
per month, the overwhelming majority of Argentines still prefer 
the stability of the current economic model - despite its many 
shortcomings - to the disorder of a closed economy.

  Surveys show that more than 70 percent of the public opposes any 
changes to convertibility, as the currency regime is known.

  "Those who want to devalue are shameless," says Maria Estevez, a 
schoolteacher who earns $600 a month. "They want to hold us 
hostage and force us to buy goods that can be bought cheaper and 
better quality imported."

  Instead of blaming globalization, most Argentines point to 
corrupt politicians and indifferent institutions for 
precipitating the current crisis.

  For such an ambitious economic program to work requires a strong 
leader with popular support to implement it. But that's exactly 
what Duhalde most lacks. Although he's so far successfully 
rallied the country's political class behind him, Duhalde, a 
former vice president to Menem and two-time governor of Buenos 
Aires province, has been dogged by allegations of corruption 
throughout his career. His reputation as an old-style party boss 
was behind his defeat at the polls in 1999, when he posted the 
worst showing ever by a Peronist presidential candidate.


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights reserved.


Blair not happy with new green deal

 



  The British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, disagreed yesterday with 
Australia's decision to sign a climate change deal with the 
United States.

  The Federal Government denied that the agreement, signed this 
week, was a signal it was dumping the Kyoto Protocol on 
greenhouse gases.

  The Australian-US "climate action partnership" involves liaison 
between governments, businesses and research bodies on climate 
change.

  Critics say that on the one hand Australia is saying it does not 
want to dump Kyoto, yet on the other it is cosying up to the US 
- which does want to dump Kyoto.

  Australia's involvement in Kyoto has been in doubt ever since 
the US President, George Bush, announced last year that 
ratifying the protocol would hurt the US economy.

  The future of the protocol, which sets targets for all countries 
in an attempt to cut pollution, will be decided this year at a 
meeting in Johannesburg.

  A spokeswoman for the Environment Minister, David Kemp, said 
yesterday that the minister was on his way to talks with the 
European Union in Brussels after a formal visit to Washington, 
and that the Government was still committed to Kyoto.

  The Opposition's environment spokesman, Kelvin Thomson, said 
yesterday that Australia "should not follow the US position on 
climate change".

  Mr Blair told the ABC that greenhouse gases were an area where 
there was an obvious disagreement with the US.

  Asked if the disagreement was also with Australia, Mr Blair 
said: "Yes. But I simply say to people, it is for individual 
countries to state their own position."

  
He was not sure the Kyoto Protocol actually went far enough.

  "The more I read about climate change, the more concerned I 
become about this issue."



Copyright @ 2002 Sydney Morning Herald


   Zimbabwe vote a test of patience

 



  HARARE AND RUSHINGA, ZIMBABWE - Martha's neighbors know her as a 
high-ranking district official of Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF 
Party, the woman who drills local children each Friday in the 
party doctrine. But in her heart, the 38-year-old widow supports 
the opposition and keeps a Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) 
membership card hidden in a cooking pot.

  "We just want someone who can give us food, hospitals, school 
fees. A better life," says Martha, explaining why she voted for 
MDC candidate Morgan Tsvangirai.

  There are many Marthas here, people who marched to ZANU-PF 
anthems and cheered President Robert Mugabe at rallies, while 
secretly planning to vote for Mr. Tsvangirai. "People pretend to 
be ZANU-PF because they are afraid. They wear the T-shirts and 
go to the rallies, but inside, they don't believe," she says.

  After months of fear and intimidation, Zimbabweans streamed to 
the polls this weekend in record numbers to cast their votes in 
the country's first contested election since independence 22 
years ago. Many arrived at overburdened polling stations in the 
early hours of the morning and waited in the hot sun for the 
entire day without food.

  "You see this tarred road and this grass? That was my bed," says 
Janet, a Harare secretary, who waited for more than 27 hours at 
a polling station in the impoverished Harare suburb of 
Kuwadzana. "I wanted to go home, but I have to vote," she says. 
"This is a crucial presidential election. This is our future."

  Even as voters went to the polls over the weekend, the 
intimidation and attempts at rigging continued. The government 
slashed the number of polling stations in urban areas where the 
MDC is favored, while boosting the number in rural ruling-party 
strongholds. In Kuwadzana, there were seven polling stations for 
about 55,000 people. Rural Bindura had 41 polling stations for a 
smaller number of people.

  Now the country's 5.6 million voters are waiting anxiously for 
the results of the poll to be announced, although the voting, 
which was supposed to end Sunday, may stretch on for days. The 
question foremost in the minds of most Zimbabweans is whether 
attempts to rig the election through voter intimidation, last- 
minute election-law changes, and outright fraud have succeeded.

  An increasing number of local election monitors and 
international observers say the vote rigging has been so 
thorough that hopes for a free election are dead.

  "The main cheating took place long before election days," says 
Brian Murphy of the Zimbabwe Citizens support group, an 
organization whose members spread around the country this 
weekend privately monitoring the elections. Mr. Murphy points to 
the lack of independent voter education, the lack of any 
independent radio stations, and the ban on holding opposition 
rallies in many districts as just a few examples. "This is not a 
fair election," he says.

  
There is a deep faith here, however, in the power of democracy.

  Edward Murchabaiw arrived at a Rushinga polling station at 6 
a.m. in a wheelbarrow, his emaciated frame drowing in a faded 
blue suit-jacket. Murchabaiw, diagnosed in the last stages of 
AIDS, does not believe he will live to see the results of this 
election. But he wanted to sound his voice. "I am happy now," he 
says with a bright smile after voting. "I have made a 
difference."

  In urban areas, lines snaked for more than a mile and angry 
voters sometimes tried to push their way into polling booths. 
Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets at one restless crowd, 
injuring at least 12 people. Some polls stayed open all night, 
with people voting by flickering candlelight or under harsh 
fluorescent bulbs.

  "The intention, of course, is that you frustrate as many voters 
as you can. Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to 
disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against 
him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where 
thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands 
in the open-handed signal of the MDC.

  In rural areas, many polling stations stood empty by midday. 
Lines were not a problem, but transparency was.

  The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were 
chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government 
officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse. 
Old and illiterate voters were assisted by ZANU-PF officials who 
often directed them to vote for the incumbent president.

  At the Chaparandza Primary School in the rural Rushinga, Mary 
Mugumira, wearing a wool "USA 1997" hat, a long traditional 
dress, no shoes, and a confused look, asked the presiding 
officer to vote for her. He refused, but sent her to talk to the 
election officers - both of whom represented the ruling ZANU-PF 
party. A moment later she had decided, and the polling agent, 
smiling, put an "X" mark on the ballot in the space marked 
"Robert Mugabe, ZANU-PF."

  Despite everything, there is still hope in Zimbabwe that this 
election may bring change.

  "I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant 
Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one 
Harare voting line. "I think this is the final nail on the 
government's coffin. Even with all their tricks, there are too 
many of us."


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.


Ministry Criticizes 'Odious' U.S. Report

 



  The Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it was "surprised, to 
put it mildly" by the U.S. State Department's criticism of 
Russia's human rights record and objected in particular to the 
"odious" section on Chechnya.

  "One gets the impression that its writers simply used old 
drafts, as if nothing had happened in either Russia or the 
United States in recent years, as if the events of Sept. 11, 
2001 had not occurred and the international community had not 
closed ranks in the battle against terrorism," the ministry said 
in a statement.

  The State Department's annual human rights report, which was 
published Monday, said Russia had a poor record regarding the 
independence and freedom of the media and in Chechnya. Russian 
security forces in Chechnya have "demonstrated little respect 
for basic human rights and there were credible reports of 
serious violations, including numerous reports of extrajudicial 
killings by both the government and Chechen fighters," the 
report said.

  Russian officials from President Vladimir Putin on down have 
portrayed the conflict in Chechnya as a war against 
international terrorists. U.S. officials have partially endorsed 
that view, pointing to rebel leaders such as Shamil Basayev and 
the Jordanian-born Omar Ibn al Khattab, who are believed to have 
financial and other ties to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist 
network.

  However, U.S. officials also note that some of the rebels do not 
have international ties, and they have criticized Russian 
military and police abuse of civilians -- although the criticism 
was toned down greatly after Russia became an enthusiastic 
member of the anti-terrorist coalition, sharing intelligence 
information, opening its airspace to humanitarian flights and 
giving a green light to U.S. military deployment in Central 
Asia.

  The Foreign Ministry said that the State Department 
pronouncement on Chechnya reflected the efforts of "certain 
circles" in the United States that object to the new 
U.S.-Russian partnership against international terrorism.

  "These circles have persistently tried to reanimate the 'Chechen 
problem,' and turn it again into an irritant in the 
Russian-American dialogue," the ministry said.

  The ministry also suggested that before judging others' rights 
records, the United States should investigate the situation at 
home, including the government's failure to ratify some 
international human rights agreements and the use of the death 
penalty. Russia introduced a moratorium on capital punishment, a 
prerequisite for joining the Council of Europe, in 1996.




Guantanamo's Unhappy Campers

 


Weekly Standard 
February 11, 2002

  
Guantanamo's Unhappy Campers

  
The only abuse the detainees are experiencing is self-inflicted.

  
By Matt Labash

  GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA -- It's 5 A.M. at the Roosevelt Roads Naval 
station in Puerto Rico, and 20 journalists straggle to the gate 
in sleep-deprived silence to catch a plane to Guantanamo Bay. 
Many of us haven't been up this early in years. But after flying 
thousands of miles, then pub-crawling through the streets of Old 
San Juan last night, we are here because our military escorts 
insist we show up at this time, though the flight actually 
leaves four hours later. "The military operates on one 
principle," explains a savvy veteran: "Hurry up and wait."

  If we're not happy, that goes double for our public affairs 
babysitters. "I'm up to my ears in Vieques," says Navy Lt. Corey 
Barker, of the nearby bombing range/public relations fiasco that 
has been protested by everyone from Al Sharpton to obscure 
Kennedys. Now, Barker is stuck minding us as we light out for 
Guantanamo, the American naval station on the southeastern tip 
of Cuba. It is there that 158 al Qaeda/Taliban prisoners are 
being detained because, depending on who you ask, it is an 
ideal, sunny clime, it's not subject to the get-out-of-jail 
escape hatches of U.S. federal law, or because, as one senior 
Pentagon official says, "The lawyers didn't want to go on 
14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific."

  Inside the air terminal, our baggage handlers check us in with 
the efficiency of Bulgarian DMV workers. A sign on the wall says 
"Air Terminal of the Year 2000." "I'd hate to see who got second 
place," whispers one reporter. As we wait for our flight on a 
creaky Pan Am jet, we are shunted off to the "VIP" room, so 
named because it has a coffee pot and seascape paintings that 
look pilfered from a south Florida retirement village. Here, we 
are given our media "indoctrination" packages, never an 
encouraging word if you aspire to reportorial autonomy. As we 
sit watching CNN, an unfounded rumor gains currency. Though it's 
Saturday, and we're supposed to be in Cuba until Monday, the 
military has changed plans and is going to make us leave 
Guantanamo Sunday morning. "One thing's for sure," says a wire 
reporter, "you won't have to sort through all your notes to 
decide what to lead with."

  Fearing an abbreviated schedule, I commence valuable 
newsgathering. Knowing that in some Taliban-held provinces, 
pederasty rivaled headless-goat polo (buzkashi) as the favorite 
pastime, I ask a Naval officer if there are any reports of 
Guantanamo prisoners turning to man-love. "Oh God no," he says. 
"Though there are some Air Force personnel over there, so who 
knows what's going on?"

  Another officer relays something we'll hear repeated often: that 
because of international political pressure, the prisoners are 
getting coddled. The latest report has Army guards directing 
detainees on which way to pray to Mecca. "They're actually going 
to paint arrows on the floors of the cells so they'll know to 
face north," he says. "You mean east," I say. "North, east, 
whatever," he replies, "I'm Lutheran--I don't know where the 
hell it is."

  A FEW hours later, we touch down at the Guantanamo landing strip 
on the isolated leeward side of the base (Gitmo, as it is 
nicknamed, is actually bisected by Guantanamo Bay). After 
getting sniffed by a German shepherd who's more interested in 
bombs than my colleague's Percocet, we're escorted to the media 
center, an ugly wood-paneled affair that sits next to a pink 
hangar. After another hour or two of waiting, a mouthy reporter 
loudly calls his editor so we can all hear him report the 
latest: "Same shit, different day. Though they're really 
cleaning up the media center. Curtains, an air conditioner, even 
a freakin' bulletin board!"

  The hospitality ends there. A stern sign on the bulletin board 
admonishes us to clean up after ourselves. The goodies set out 
on a table (grape beverage powder and apple jelly from 
meals-ready-to-eat packs) practically scream, "Can't wait till 
you leave." Many of us had secretly harbored the fantasy that we 
could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the 
prisoners' cells, the terrorist equivalent of a field trip to 
the ASPCA.

  But as a gaggle of public affairs officers enter, they lay down 
two immutable laws: There will be no access to detainees (the 
Geneva Convention forbids making them a "public curiosity"). And 
we can go only where the officers take us. Running the public 
affairs show is Army Lt. Col. William Costello, a bearish 
soldier who looks like the kind of guy who enjoys breaking 
things on his face. His hard, dark orbs dart to and fro while he 
delivers a good news/bad news proposition. The good news is 
Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld will be visiting the 
detainees' Camp X-Ray the next morning. The bad news is that the 
unfounded rumor is founded--the Pentagon press corps is coming 
with him, and we'll be forced to leave a day early.

  Immediately, an angry media throng closes in on Costello, the 
air now containing an Altamont-like level of violence. "My 
editors are going to crush my nuts," says one reporter, probably 
female. "This is crazy," I say, "How am I supposed to get enough 
material for a piece?" "Not my problem," replies Costello. "This 
is bullshit," thunders another print reporter. "You're making us 
leave as the biggest story gets here." "You're not allowed to 
stay," says Costello. "Why not?" snaps the reporter. Costello's 
blood rises as his high-and-tight haircut stands up like an 
angry-dog scruff: "BECAUSE ... YOU'RE ... NOT ... STAYING!" 
"Welcome to the Pearl of the Antilles," deadpans Lt. Commander 
Brendan McPherson, in a limp cruise-director chirp.

  It's understandable if public affairs types are a little testy. 
There's an obvious culture clash (military personnel don't get 
paid to ask why; journalists don't get paid otherwise). Besides 
that, ever since the detainees started arriving on January 11, 
Gitmo and the joint forces being run under Southern Command have 
experienced the PR equivalent of what my ever-subtle 
colleagues--borrowing from Special Forces terminology for 
disastrous missions--call a "goat f--." In the richest irony of 
the war on terrorism, the Department of Defense, which normally 
goes out of its way not to make news, caused an international 
outcry by releasing still shots of detainees being brought to 
Camp X-Ray.

  As they were transported and in-processed, al Qaeda members were 
photographed kneeling, wearing earmuffs, shackles, and blackout 
goggles. Though these seemed perfectly reasonable precautions to 
take when transporting by C-141 members of an organization 
already responsible for one prison uprising (Mazar-i-Sharif, 
which resulted in a CIA operative's death) and several suicide 
plane crashes, human rights groups and international media, led 
by a chorus of Euro-whiners, immediately lapsed into hysterics.

  The British press, with typical understatement, claimed 
prisoners were being "brutalized, tortured, and humiliated," and 
that the whole operation was nothing more than "a sick attempt 
to appeal to the worst red-neck prejudices." Tony Blair pointed 
out that the three British al Qaeda members being held at Gitmo 
have had no complaints. But that didn't stop the Mirror's 
Stephen Moyes from method reporting by donning an al Qaeda rig. 
"Wrapped in the suffocating orange boiler suit," he wrote, "I 
lost any sense of dignity"--a loss he could have just as easily 
sustained by rereading his own copy.

  Sillier still were protestations from such humanitarians as 
Saddam Hussein and the government of Malaysia (Prime Minister 
Mahathir Mohamad has made some of the loudest noise, though 
Amnesty International dings him for arresting the speechwriter 
of a political rival, who was then blindfolded, stripped naked, 
punched, verbally abused, and forced to simulate homosexual 
acts--none of which is alleged at Camp X-Ray). About the only 
foreign leader who has supported the American detainee camp, 
ironically, is Fidel Castro, who is either angling to end the 
embargo or inching ever closer to dementia. (He declared January 
"Americans' Month" and invited Jimmy Carter for a visit.)

  All of this has made Camp X-Ray personnel a sensitive lot. On 
the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is 
located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has 
decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and 
who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has 
cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit. Costello, like many 
Gitmo types, is baffled at the uproar over the prisoners' 
treatment. "Soldiers and Marines that are guarding the detainees 
at Camp X-Ray have worse conditions than the detainees," he 
says. Much has been made over their being kept in outdoor cells, 
invariably called "cages," which are topped with corrugated 
tin-covered wooden roofs that keep what little rain Gitmo gets 
(six inches a year) off the prisoners. Costello says their 
eight-by-eight cells contain about twice as much space as 
soldiers have in their crowded, unventilated tents a few hundred 
yards away.

  "They're getting warm showers, clean laundry, hot chow," 
Costello says of the prisoners. "They're getting 2,600 calories 
a day. I'm not getting 2,600 calories a day. I'm running my ass 
off chasing you guys around." (One of the medics treating 
detainees claims that a full quarter of them were suffering from 
malnutrition when they were captured.)

  But we don't have to take Costello's word for it. We can see for 
ourselves, sort of. After a quick stop at McDonald's (the only 
one in Cuba), our white school bus transports us past beautiful 
seaside vistas and brownish cactus-infested scrub, past 
ramshackle housing and up a hill, which features an abandoned 
auto yard that the locals used to call Sears. It's where they'd 
strip old junkers for parts then used on jerry-rigged jalopies 
called "Gitmo specials."

  Across from Sears is Camp X-Ray, a teeming hive of concertina 
wire, canvas tents, guard towers, and newly constructed plywood 
interrogation shacks with window-unit air conditioners. The 
chain-link cells themselves don't need air conditioning, since a 
comfortable Caribbean breeze (temperatures range from the low 
70s at night to the low 80s during the day) continuously 
circulates through the encampment.

  Restricted to an area about 150 yards away from the open-air 
cellblocks, we observe the camp from a slight elevation that 
CNN's John Zarrella calls "Heartbreak Ridge," so named "because 
if you're a journalist, it breaks your heart that you can't get 
closer." Gitmo has actually been the site of a lot of heartbreak 
over the years.

  It broke Christopher Columbus's, when he stopped here on his 
second New World voyage. He left after failing to find gold, 
threatening to cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't 
agree to pretend they'd reached Asia. It also rankles Castro, 
who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but 
can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement. Likewise, 
when thousands of Cuban rafters were detained here for months in 
the mid-'90s, many grew so unhappy with Gitmo's ghostly 
desolation that they'd do anything to leave, including inject 
diesel fuel into their veins, drive tent stakes into their 
limbs, even swim back to Castro's Cuba.

  By comparison, the al Qaedans look pretty fat, if not happy. 
They laze away in the shade of their cells. They sleep on 
inch-and-a-half-thick isomats, the same ones that are issued to 
our military. With the assistance of a Muslim Navy chaplain, 
they pray five times daily. (Quick studies, the al Qaedans 
didn't need arrows painted on their cell floors. A single 
signpost next to an American flag points the way to Mecca.) And 
while American prisoners in the Hanoi Hilton often spent years 
in solitary confinement and received no medical care (John 
McCain to this day can't comb his own hair), X-Ray detainees get 
daily sick calls from all manner of doctors, from optometrists 
to podiatrists. The prisoners (who represent about 25 different 
nationalities but mostly are Saudis) can also freely chat with 
each other about God knows what: prison uprisings, the demise of 
Talk magazine, trades of Froot Loops for garlic bagel chips.

  Their restroom arrangements are pretty spartan. They get a white 
bucket for emergency squirts, while they are instructed to hold 
two fingers up for the alternative. At that time, a guard 
shackles them and takes them to the port-o-loo. While the 
military has spared no expense in construction costs (in three 
weeks, they built a completely operational field hospital 
staffed by 160 medical personnel--two more than there are 
prisoners), they've saved a fortune in toilet paper. It's the 
detainees' cultural preference not to use any. "We don't shake 
their hands," says one camp guard.

  In addition to the aforementioned amenities, detainees also 
receive two towels, a Koran, a shortened toothbrush (still long 
enough to file into a shiv), a canteen, a bucket of water, 
fluoride toothpaste, and shampoo. Not just any shampoo, but 
"Lively" salon anti-dandruff shampoo--a "luxurious shampoo in a 
gentle formula that restores moisture, shine, and body to your 
beautifully clean hair." Those who think the prisoners are 
getting coddled (Rep. John Mica, a Florida Republican, visited 
the camp and said it's "too good for the bastards") will be 
happy to know that the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched.

  WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great 
lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees 
have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to 
kill Americans. When I skirt away from my minders and visit the 
Marine snipers' tent, I learn it went well beyond that.

  The snipers, of course, are the camp's deadliest sharpshooters, 
ropy young bucks (21-23 years of age) who seem largely culled 
from the western or southern United States, where firearms are 
often regarded as extra appendages. Their tent looks like a 
Marines-issued college dorm room: Skoal-juice bottles, laundry 
hanging everywhere, and a spade-like sniper insignia banner 
tacked to a tent wall. If there is a prison uprising, it is 
these gentleman who will man the guard towers and introduce the 
rioters to their 72 black-eyed virgins.

  At some point, that might become necessary, they tell me, as 
plotting is obviously afoot. Sgt. Matt Lampert of Montana says 
the other day one of the prisoners was caught "with a piece of 
cloth stuffed with rocks that was tied off at the end." Sgt. 
Rodney Davis says that during chowtime, he sees them through his 
scope "making terrain models out of their food." And unlike say, 
Afghan prisons, where starving detainees are reportedly begging 
to be sent to Gitmo, there's plenty of food to play with. "They 
get fed better than us, sir," says Lampert. When I ask the 
Marines if they've seen anything weird, they laugh sheepishly, 
looking at each other. Finally, Sgt. Josh Westbrook, who sports 
a forearm tattoo of flaming baby heads, steps up. "They know 
they're being watched," he explains, "so they'll stare at you, 
and while they stare at you, they'll, uh, masturbate."

  According to these Marines, they don't just pleasure themselves 
to freak out the snipers, but also to embarrass the female Army 
guards in the camp's interior. The weirdness doesn't end there. 
They've also eaten their toiletries and urinated on equipment. 
"The other day," says Westbrook, "one of the guys tried to do a 
naked cartwheel." In the most bizarre twist, Lance Corporal 
Devin Klebaur says a few have also been known to "put toothpaste 
in their ass." "What's the purpose?" I ask. "I'm not sure," he 
says, puzzled.

  After leaving the snipers, I collar other grunts who say they 
believe the prisoners are more apt to act out whenever they see 
one of the regular visitors from the International Committee of 
the Red Cross enter the camp. "They're looking to be 
disciplined," says one, so that any aggressive guard behavior 
will make it look as if they're being brutalized by the American 
military in front of international witnesses. ICRC visits, says 
another soldier, are the highlight of a prisoner's day, since 
they've been spotted "giving the unshackled prisoners cookies 
and milk, cigarettes, shaking their hands." Many organizations 
who haven't been to Gitmo, like Human Rights Watch, have been 
extremely critical of the prisoners' treatment, while the ICRC 
has aired no complaints. Still, says another soldier, "They're a 
pain in the ass. We see them offering them cookies, hugging them 
like they're best buddies. They're undermining everything we're 
trying to do."

  What we're trying to do isn't exactly clear at this point. We 
are certainly interrogating the prisoners, though base sources 
won't divulge any information that's been gleaned. The prisoners 
will likely be formally charged and tried, though when I called 
a senior Pentagon source to find out by whom and when, the 
source said, "If you find out, will you please tell me?"

  ON SUNDAY, Rumsfeld visits, and we hope for illumination. 
Sitting on a bus on the tarmac, waiting for the secretary to 
emerge from his plane, we pass the time as journalists do, 
discussing the AP-style spelling of "bin Laden," speculating 
whether the prisoners will get an Internet cafe (one of them has 
asked for video games), and making fun of the fresh-meat 
Pentagon press corps, who are overdressed in heavy wools instead 
of our much cooler island linens.

  One of Rumsfeld's security agents mounts our bus, telling us the 
ground rules: no photos on the tarmac, no fighting, no hitting 
Rumsfeld in the head with a boom mike. After Rumsfeld tours Camp 
X-Ray with four senators and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, Richard Myers (who is so overshadowed by the secretary's 
rock star aura that one reporter has to ask who he is), Rumsfeld 
meets the press on Heartbreak Ridge. He gives the sort of hooah 
performance that has endeared him to both the troops and the 
press. While he remains as firm as ever that the detainees are 
"illegal combatants," not "prisoners of war," which would afford 
them more rights under the Geneva Convention, he nicely avoids 
plucking the only hair worth splitting--whether the captives' 
status is his call. (Human rights hawks say the matter should be 
decided by a "competent tribunal," whatever that is.)

  Even if it isn't up to Rumsfeld, the argument seems rather 
academic. It's hard to imagine anyone who has actually read the 
Geneva Convention wanting to confer POW status on alleged al 
Qaeda members. Doing so would not only make the terrorists 
eligible for repatriation to their home countries, but also 
would forbid their being punished for trying to escape, allow 
them to receive "scientific equipment" from home, and even 
confer upon them the right to dentures--in case they lost their 
teeth while, say, biting a guard. Most ludicrous, they would be 
afforded "advances of pay" in an amount "never ... inferior" to 
that which we pay our own armed forces. If you're a terrorist 
from Central Asia, it's not a bad deal: Kill Americans, get 
arrested, then get a pay raise from America.

  With all the global bellyaching about the detainees' right to 
humane treatment, it's hard to imagine them getting better 
treatment than they're already receiving. On my last day at 
Gitmo, all I have time to eat is a stale Ding Dong and a greasy 
plate of onion rings. My public affairs keepers couldn't care 
less. By contrast, for breakfast and lunch alone, the prisoners 
are served oatmeal, an orange, peanut butter, margarine, a 
"culturally appropriate" halal meal, and a giant snack pack 
containing Froot Loops, raisins, a Nature Valley granola bar, 
baked garlic bagel chips, and Bullseye barbecue-seasoned 
sunflower kernels. Still, the overseers of the prison are 
concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with 
their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just 
the way the prisoners like it back home.

  While we wait, we journalists have to stand in the hot sun most 
of the day. After hours, we are confined to our Consolidated 
Bachelor Quarters, sleeping four to a duplex room on cots, some 
without pillows or blankets. We aren't even allowed to go the 
beach, a few hundred yards away from our building (though, 
emboldened by the rum we imported from Puerto Rico, a colleague 
and I make a mad dash under a guard searchlight for the 
bathwater Caribbean anyway). Besides drinking, our only 
entertainment is a pool table--one cue is cracked, the other is 
missing its tip. The prisoners, by contrast, get to read their 
Korans, while novels and more "religious books" are on the way.

  At the end of their day, they get a good night's sleep in a 
single cell. At the end of our day, we are told that a C-141 
(the same plane that transported the detainees) just became 
available, and we are prematurely hustled off so the military 
can dump us in Nowheresville, New Jersey, on a Sunday night 
after every rental car place in the state has closed.

  Perhaps the international community is right. The treatment 
being meted out at Guantanamo is inhumane. To see for yourself, 
don't bother canvassing Camp X-Ray prisoners. Just get a Gitmo 
press pass.

  
Matt Labash is senior writer at The Weekly Standard.


   Tokyo irked by US stance on Kyoto

 



  TOKYO - Coral reefs will die from water that's too hot. Polar 
bears will have less room to roam, crowding some of them out of 
existence. Birds will start flying an extra mile north each 
year, and may starve when they get there.

  These are among the dire possible consequences of global 
warming, say climate-change experts. At no time was it clearer 
that countries should take steps to slow this process than when 
150 countries signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1997.

  But now, with President George Bush saying the US will not 
ratify the protocol - which was shaped in part to fit 
Washington's concerns five years ago - the accord's ultimate 
effectiveness is in doubt, and many US allies are irritated.

  For Japan, a nation of nature-lovers, the shaping of the accord 
on their soil was a source of pride - and proof that they were 
still relevant players on the world stage.

  "It is absolutely inadmissible for the US, which is the greatest 
gas-emitting country, to once again turn its back and present 
something that is against Kyoto Protocol and the framework 
convention on climate change," says Mie Asaoka, president of the 
Kiko Network, a Tokyo environmental-umbrella organization 
representing about 150 Japanese groups.

  The clash over how to stop global warming while allowing 
sluggish economies to prosper occurs at an awkward point in 
US-Japanese relations. US analysts looking east say that as 
Japan's economic dominance in Asia diminishes, so will the 
importance of the US-Japan relationship as a whole.

  The US Department of Defense recently left Japan off its list of 
nations contributing to the post-Sept. 11 war on terror. 
Realizing the accidental slight, the US later apologized for 
overlooking Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's efforts - 
considered tremendously ambitious here - to alter the 
interpretation of Japan's post-World War II pacifist 
constitution in order to dispatch warships for noncombat 
support.

  During Mr. Bush's visit here last month, Mr. Koizumi gently 
balked at the president's proposed alternative to the Kyoto 
agreement, saying that Japan would "like to see further efforts" 
on the part of the US.

  While there are no protesters in the streets, there is an air of 
indignation here over Washington's "do-it-our-way" decision on 
something that effects the whole globe.

  Among the Kiko Network's handouts is a pamphlet with a cartoon 
of the world. On one end, Koizumi defensively holds up the Kyoto 
Protocol. On the other, a fiendish-looking Bush seizes a weeping 
globe in his monster-size hands.

  In the eyes of Japan and many US allies, the Bush 
administration's decision not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol is 
one of many signals that Washington is growing increasingly 
unilateralist in the six months since the Sept. 11 attacks on 
America. From pulling out of Kyoto - which is in the process of 
being ratified by the European Union - to labeling Iran, Iraq, 
and North Korea an "axis of evil" and prime targets in the next 
phase of the war, America's allies are seeing in the US a 
growing tendency to act first and consult later.

  The Bush administration is offering its own alternative plan, 
the Clear Skies and Global Climate Change Initiatives, which 
aides say are more market-sensitive and will reduce the worst 
air pollutants by 70 percent while finding a strategy to cut 
greenhouse gas intensity by 18 percent over the next 10 years.

  But environmental advocates say Bush's alternative will allow 
the US to continue to increase the amount of gas it emits. They 
fear that, because the US is forging its own way, smaller 
nations that are expected to ratify the Kyoto Protocol could 
start backing out. This could lead to a two-tier system in which 
the US and a few others - Australia and Canada may follow suit - 
will choose their own targets, while the rest of the world will 
be limited to the stricter Kyoto limits.

  
Not everyone in Japan is upset with Bush's alternative.

  Japanese industry has already gone through vigorous 
energy-saving - and thus environmentally friendly - drives after 
the two energy crises of the 1970s and 1980s, says Mitsuru 
Shinozaki, a spokesman for Keidanren, the country's most 
influential business lobby. After the Earth Summit of 10 years 
ago, he says, Japan discussed and implemented a self-action plan 
to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions. "Any further policy to 
reduce emissions," he says "will hurt Japanese industrial 
competitiveness."

  
back to top

  
Untitled


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.


   Not 'gonna be a long, long time' till you can be a rocket man

 



  The International Space Station is not exactly the 
Waldorf-Astoria. And a Russian Soyuz capsule will never boast 
the creature comforts of a stretch limo.

  But that doesn't bother an increasing number of well-heeled 
executives and celebrities willing to pay millions of dollars 
and spend a few months training in exchange for a quick trip to 
orbit.

  Welcome to the dawn of space tourism, where opportunities to 
view spaceship Earth from aboveare rare, visions of the future 
are grand, and Everyman seems willing to shed planet Earth, if 
briefly. The latest "tour-o-naut" to buckle up and place his 
tray table in the upright, locked position is South African 
venture capitalist Mark Shuttleworth. He launched with two 
cosmonauts on a space-station resupply flight yesterday from the 
Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. He is the second fare-paying 
visitor to the station, following in the bootsteps of Dennis 
Tito, a US businessman who took that same trip last year.

  They aren't alone. "Another eight to 10 people have expressed 
interest" in a Soyuz trip to the space station, notes Tereza 
Predescu of Space Adventures, an Arlington, Va., company that 
arranges the flights.

  
'N space?

  Russia's next resupply flight is scheduled for October, and two 
Americans are vying for the passenger seat: former National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration associate administrator 
Lori Garver and boy-band 'N Sync's Lance Bass. Aerosmith rocker 
Steven Tyler also is reportedly eyeing a future flight.

  "There is a lot of pent-up demand, at least emotionally" among a 
large number of people to journey into space, says John Logsdon, 
of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University in 
Washington, D.C.

  For example, in 2000, Harris Interactive surveyed Americans' and 
Canadians' willingness to travel into space as tourists. 
Overall, 86 percent of the 2,022 respondents would be interested 
in a trip to space. Extrapolating from the results, Space 
Adventures, which commissioned the study, estimates that 10,000 
people a year would be willing to pay $100,000 apiece for a 
quick up-and-down suborbital flight, a la Mercury astronaut Alan 
Shepard. That translates into a $1 billion-a-year business.

  If they received the trip as a promotion or gift, 80 percent of 
the respondents said they'd take an intercontinental 
space-plane, 70 percent would take a space-station tour or an 
orbital flight, and 74 percent would be willing to take a 
suborbital journey.

  For space tourism to truly take off, however, several things 
must happen, says Frank Sietzen of the Space Transportation 
Association, an aerospace-industry group in Arlington, Va.

  "You need a strong, growing US space transportation system, and 
the federal ... decision that it's in the national interest to 
fund ... a second generation reusable launch vehicle to supplant 
the shuttle at a sufficiently low cost that it would be 
commercially viable," he says. Out of that effort would come the 
rocket or rockets that would service commercial passenger 
flights.

  He likens the effort needed to one the US Air Force undertook in 
1951, when it began developing an aerial tanker to refuel jet 
fighters and bombers. The result, he continues, was the KC-135, 
known commercially as the Boeing 707, the first commercial jet 
to be used worldwide.

  The government is moving in that direction with NASA's Space 
Launch Initiative. The agency has budgeted $4.8 billion through 
2006 for the development of safer, more reliable, and cheaper 
follow-ons to the shuttle. It looking beyond the SLI to a 
program designed to develop a third-generation of launch 
vehicles.

  Others are not waiting for the government to act. Some 20 
companies and groups worldwide are in a competition for a $10 
million purse offered to the first firm that can build and fly a 
two-stage, reusable rocket that can carry three people on a 
suborbital flight and be refurbished for its next flight within 
two weeks. Yesterday, a Canadian team paraded a mockup a 
60-foot-long "Canadian Arrow" through the streets of Manhattan 
in a pitch coinciding with Mr. Shuttleworth's launch.

  Known as the X Prize, the contest is modeled after the prizes 
that stimulated growth of commercial aviation early in the last 
century, says X Prize Foundation president Peter Diamandis.

  
Modern barnstormers

  Noting that Charles Lindbergh's record-breaking trans-Atlantic 
solo flight was a response to the offer of an aviation prize, he 
adds that within six years of that flight, commercial passenger 
flights became common. He expects a similar commercial response 
after his prize is issued.

  "People paid what for them were large sums of money" to fly with 
early-20th century barnstormers "to see the world from 2,000 
feet," he says. He expects a similar response when an X Prize 
winner emerges. Indeed, Space Adventures already has payments 
from roughly 100 customers willing to fly with astronautical 
barnstormers once a winner emerges, perhaps as early as 2004 or 
2005.

  The contest already is stimulating a range of related efforts, 
ranging from states trying to set up space ports for tourism 
flights, to Federal Aviation Administration development of 
licensing requirements for private commercial launch facilities 
and passenger operations.

  Where Dr. Diamandis sees relatively short-term opportunity, 
however, others suggest a viable space-tourism industry is still 
a decade or more away. "It will happen," he says, "but not in 
the time frame that will please tourism's advocates."


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.


   Veni, Vidi, Venezuela

 



  FIGHTING tyranny with tyranny clearly didn't work in oil-giant 
Venezuela last week. And now coup-plotting military officers and 
the reinstalled president, Hugo Chavez, need to show Latin 
America that their tyrannical tactics are at an end.

  President Chavez - a former Army coup-meister himself, who was 
elected three years ago - has abused his popular mandate with 
heavy-handed measures based on a Constitution largely rewritten 
by himself and his supporters. He has sometimes talked of 
remaining president past the year 2020. And his economic 
promises to the poor are in shreds, while his diplomatic 
flirtation with leftist world dictators only hints at his 
inclinations to gain more power.

  But Latin America has moved beyond coups, and this pivotal 
nation in a hemisphere of democracies has the means to remove 
Mr. Chavez by constitutional and especially nonviolent means.

  His two-day removal from office began when he tried to stack the 
board of the state-owned oil company in his favor. The company's 
executives revolted, threatening a cutoff of oil. That was a 
catalyst for pent-up opposition to Chavez. Business groups and 
labor unions joined in a giant protest, perhaps knowing that 
portions of the military were on their side. When gunshots were 
fired during a march on the presidential palace last Thursday, 
killing more than a dozen, military leaders forced Chavez to 
step aside. But then international pressure and renewed domestic 
support for Chavez forced the generals to let him take office 
again.

  The Bush administration all but welcomed the coup, tarnishing 
the US role as a champion of democracy. It, too, has a reason to 
repent.


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.


   Venezuela's new dawn

 



  
BBC correspondent in Caracas

  Venezuelans awoke on Friday to a country transformed by the 
dramatic and violent events of the last 24 hours, which left at 
least 11 people dead and more than 80 injured.

  A general strike and an escalating oil industry stoppage that 
had threatened to cripple the country's economy were no more - 
and the country not only had a new president, business leader 
Pedro Carmona, but a new name.

  The country was no longer the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 
in honour of South American independence hero Simon Bolivar, one 
of former president Hugo Chavez's heroes.

  Now it is simply the Republic of Venezuela. The name change was 
Mr Carmona's first act as head of the transition government.

  His second was to announce the end of the three-day general 
strike he had called with the head of the Confederation of 
Venezuelan Workers (CTV) leader Carlos Ortega in support of 
protesting managers from state oil company PDVSA.

  
Shellshocked

  Managers were striking because Mr Chavez had filled the 
company's board of directors with his supporters.

  Despite the announcement, traffic was lighter than a normal 
Friday and many Venezuelans did not turn up for work.

  The country is in shellshock. On Thursday a peaceful rally of 
more than 100,000 mainly middle class Venezuelans had ended in 
bloodshed.

  As marchers called for Mr Chavez's resignation outside 
Miraflores, the presidential palace, shots were fired into the 
crowd. Eyewitness Euridice Ledesma said snipers fired on the 
marchers from rooftops near the palace.

  Film footage also caught armed supporters of Mr Chavez firing 
indiscriminately at the marchers.

  Later army chief, General Efrain Vasquez said some "Bolivarian" 
groups were indeed armed.

  "It was horrible. These groups were shooting at defenceless 
people," said photographer Luis Gomez.

  
Chavez's last day

  At the time, Mr Chavez was addressing the nation to assure them 
his government respected people's right to demonstrate and 
freedom of the press.

  Moments later he announced that he had taken five national 
television channels off the air for "telling lies about the 
government".

  The shootings were the final straw for the military. A 
succession of officers filled the TV screens to say they 
supported the people and that the killings were "not tolerable".

  As tanks surrounded Miraflores, Mr Chavez was holed up with 
senior military officers in a bid to save his presidency.

  In the early hours of the morning, chief of the armed forces 
General Lucas Rincon held a brief news conference to say Mr 
Chavez's resignation had been demanded and accepted.

  Earlier his wife, Marisabel, and children had left Caracas in 
the cover of darkness on a PDVSA jet for Barquisimeto in western 
Venezuela.

  Mr Chavez is currently detained at Fuerte Tiuna army base in 
Caracas and could face possible charges for his role in the 
killings.

  News of Mr Chavez's resignation caused hundreds of flag-waving 
and whistle-blowing Venezuelans to surround the city's air force 
base, La Carlota, in the hope of seeing Mr Chavez' departure 
from the country.

  Mr Chavez's exit has left Venezuela with a power vacuum and no 
obvious long-term leader. The challenge now is to heal the deep 
social divisions that exist within the country.

  "I think people are happy because Chavez has fallen. But there's 
also a feeling of uncertainty about how the country's obvious 
problems are going to be solved," said Ms Ledesma.


Copyright @ BBC

	
US Secretary of State Colin Powell, described as one of the few enlightened officials in President Bush's administration, is trying to "patch up" President Bush's statements, especially his latest one in which he made reckless threats at the "axis of evil," namely Iran, Iraq and North Korea. A day after President Bush's threat to crush these countries and use all means to prevent them from developing weapons of mass destruction, Secretary Powell said before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that "characterizing these counties as the axis of evil does not mean that his government intends to invade them." He added: "We are prepared to initiate a dialogue, and we want to work with our friends and allies in the world on ways of dealing with such regimes." 
	
	
 These are fine words, but they do not reflect the reality, because the hard-line wing in the US administration comprising Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, and National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice have the final say in running affairs at the White House, and have direct influence on President Bush. 
	
	
 Oddly enough, speculations swirled in Washington that Powell listened to President Bush's speech and his threats to "the axis of evil" like any other US citizen. He had not read the speech before President Bush delivered it, as he was supposed to do by virtue of his post. The fact that he subsequently denied these speculations does not mean they are baseless. 
	
	
 At any rate, Secretary Powell's remark about the US administration's readiness to enter dialogue with these "evil" states and with Washington's friends on ways of dealing with them involves some contradictions. For he affirmed in the first speech that there would be no dialogue with Iraq until after it has accepted the return of the UN arms inspectors. 
	
	
 The current US administration will consult with no one, not even its closest allies, whether in Europe or its followers in the Third World, particularly in the Arab world. The US administration has already decided to "punish" any country it believes poses a danger to the Hebrew State. It lumped North Korea with Iran and Iraq as part of the "axis of evil" only to mislead Arabs and Muslims and to create the impression that Islam is not alone targeted. 
	
	
 The United States is these days ruled by an alliance between two main lobbies, the arms lobby and the Zionist lobby, which sees the world through the eyes of Ari'el Sharon and his extremist government. We therefore have to expect the worst in the near future. 
	
	
 President Bush is facing a recession and an economic crisis. He does not want to repeat his father's mistake, being defeated in the next elections because of economic factors. He is therefore planning to trigger wars here and there to revive the flagging arms industry. 
	
	
 The United States is currently run by a typical Texan mentality, which is closer to that of cowboys than to a civilized mentality that believes in dialogue and coexistence among peoples. This mentality simultaneously raises apprehensions and resentment, because international economic prosperity can be built on stability, not wars. A catastrophe would engulf every country if the US arms industry progressed at the expense of the world's security and stability. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Kitakyushu, Japan, Feb. 12 Kyodo -- A 3,986-ton Panamanian cargo ship heading to Taiwan from South Korea sank in the East China Sea late Monday, leaving one sailor dead and another of the 20-member crew missing, the Japan Coast Guard said Tuesday. 
	
	
 Coast Guard officials said the vessel, Triumph Kaohsiung, sank at around 11:30 p.m. at a point about 110 kilometers west of Goto islands in western Nagasaki Prefecture. 
	
	
 Officials said 19 crew members were plucked up from the sea and one died later. 
	
	
 According to the Triumph Kaohsiung crew, the vessel was flooded with water and the engine stopped at around 7 p.m. Monday, and the ship sank four and a half hours later. 
	
	
 The ship was heading to the southern Taiwan city Kaohsiung with a cargo of steel products that was loaded in the South Korean port Pohang. 
	
	
 Coast Guard officials said Japanese coast guard vessels plucked 12 survivors from a lifeboat and seven others from the sea. One of the rescued sailors died later. 
	
	
 Japanese coast guard aircraft and patrol boats were in the area looking for the missing sailor. 
	
	
 The ship's crew consisted of 11 Chinese, one Taiwanese, two Indonesians and six Myanmarese.	


	
United Nations, New York, Nov 11, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami and his Venezuelan counterpart Hugo Chavez here Saturday cited cooperation among OPEC member countries as the key to forestalling further oil price declines. The Iranian president also hailed Chavez's recent efforts in travelling to OPEC and non-OPEC member countries, in a bid to garner support for propping up the sagging crude prices. Khatami, who had met with Chavez on the sidelines of a UN General Assembly session, also explained the ongoing Afghan crisis in the wake of the US-led strikes as well as the Islamic Republic's stance on the September 11 terror attacks in Washington and New York. He reiterated his call for a global peace coalition, based on justice, to stem the roots of terrorism. "Forming a world-wide coalition based on peace and justice to eradicate the ominous phenomenon of terrorism is a must," Khatami said. Chavez, whose country currently heads the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), said that Venezuela's recent efforts in the form of his whirlwind trips to OPEC and non-OPEC member countries, were in line with the interests of all the oil producing countries. He also described cooperation among OPEC and non-OPEC countries as a boost to their national interests. Chavez voiced "the Latin American concern" on the ongoing crisis in the Middle East, saying Caracas was following the international stance on the fight against terrorism, violence and intrigues. OPEC is due to hold a meeting in Vienna on Wednesday to discuss the widely expected production cut. He also called for further expansion of bilateral cooperation between Tehran and Caracas in various international fields, such as OPEC and the Group of 77 (G77) of the world developing countries. Khatami is currently in New York to attend a special session of the UN General Assembly on 'Dialogue Among Civilizations' to have an international convention on the theme approved. The United Nations designated 2001, as the Year of 'Dialogue among Civilizations' on President Khatami's initiative.	


	
KABUL, Feb 10 (AFP) - Interim Afghan leader Hamid Karzai is to travel to the United Arab Emirates on Sunday, completing visits to the three countries that recognized the Taliban regime before September 11. 
	
	
 Kabul announced the Afghan embassy in Islamabad would reopen next week after Karzai's historic fence-mending visit to Pakistan on Friday. He has also made an official trip to Saudi Arabia. 
	
	
 In another step to heal festering wounds, Karzai on Saturday pardoned 350 captured Taliban soldiers, saying they were "innocent" and part of a general amnesty that allowed foot-soldiers to go free. 
	
	
 But the Afghan interim government branded Mullah Abdul Wakil Mutawakel, the Taliban foreign minister who surrendered to US forces in Kandahar Friday, as a war criminal who should be put on trial. 
	
	
 Taliban leaders "created misery for our people. The world has suffered because of what they did ... They deserve justice and to be treated as war criminals because they supported terrorism," Interim Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah said. 
	
	
 One of the closest aides to reclusive Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar, he is seen as a potential source of crucial evidence against Omar and bin Laden, the chief suspect of the September 11 terror attacks who has eluded a US-led manhunt so far. 
	
	
 The United States meanwhile brought another 34 al-Qaeda and Taliban captives to a detention camp on a US naval base on Cuba Saturday, bringing the total of detainees held there to 220. 
	
	
 The new arrivals were dressed in standard-issue zippered orange jumpsuits. Because each was bound and shackled, the blue jackets they wore on the 27-hour flight were removed by scissors-wielding US troops as the prisoners descended from the plane into the tropical heat. 
	
	
 In Geneva the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said it and Washington were at odds over Washington's decision not to recognise captured Taliban and al-Qaeda fighters as prisoners of war. 
	
	
 "There are divergent views between the US and the ICRC on the procedures which apply on how to determine that the persons detained are not entitled to prisoner of war status," the ICRC said in a statement. 
	
	
 "The US and the ICRC will pursue their dialogue on this issue." 
	
	
 US President George W. Bush decided Thursday that the 1949 Geneva Conventions would apply to captured Taliban fighters taken from Afghanistan to a US military base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but not to al-Qaeda members there. 
	
	
 However, Washington said that neither group would be accorded prisoner of war status. 
	
	
 Concern also continued over signs that the US was expanding its war on terror to other countries. 
	
	
 While taking care to avoid directly criticizing Bush, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said it was unrealistic to see the world in terms of good and evil states. 
	
	
 In an interview published by the Swiss daily newspaper Blick on Saturday, Annan was asked about Bush's statement describing Iran, Iraq and North Korea as part of an "axis of evil." 
	
	
 Annan said, without specifically mentioning the US: "You can not divide the world between the good and the evil, because between them there are shades of gray." 
	
	
 EU commissioner Chris Patten, also speaking in a newspaper interview, accused Bush's administration of a dangerously "absolutist and simplistic" stance. 
	
	
 It was time European governments spoke up and stopped Washington before it went into "unilateralist overdrive", he told the British newspaper The Guardian. 
	
	
 In Ottawa, the Group of Seven industrialized nations called for intensified efforts to freeze terrorist financing and reported that at least 100 million dollars had been frozen since September 11. 
	
	
 "Significant results have already been achieved," said the final communique of finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States. 
	
	
 "Since September 11, almost 150 countries and jurisdictions have issued orders to freeze terrorist assets and over 100 million dollars has been frozen worldwide," it said after the two-day gathering in Ottawa and in nearby Quebec. 
	
	
 In another sign of progress in cracking terrorist networks, court sources in Paris said an Islamic militant under investigation for an alleged plot to attack the French city of Strasbourg had admitted meeting two other terrorist suspects at a training camp in Afghanistan. 
	
	
 Yacine Akhnouche, arrested Monday, told police he had met suspected shoe bomber Richard Reid and Zacarias Moussaoui at a training camp in Afghanistan in 2000, during one of several stays in the country. 
	
	
 Moussaoui, a Frenchman of Moroccan descent, is the first person charged in connection with the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington. 
	
	
 Reid, a British national, was arrested after allegedly trying to light a fuse attached to explosives in his shoes while on a Paris to Miami flight on December 22. 
	
	
 Karzai meanwhile continued to wrestle with security problems as rival warlords tried to fill the power vacuum left by the fall of the Taliban. 
	
	
 On Saturday he met representatives of two warlords who clashed violently last week over who should be governor in eastern Paktia province. 
	
	
 "This is a very serious matter and Karzai wanted himself to be involved in finding a solution," Deputy Border Affairs Minister Mirza Ali told AFP. 
	
	
 Fifty people were killed in a two-day battle when Karzai's appointed governor, Padsha Khan, sent his forces to secure the governor's house in the provincial capital Gardez. 
	
	
 They were driven out by rival warlord Saif Ullah, who has refused to give up power. 
	
	
 Karzai has blamed Khan for the fighting and said it was "one more reason why we should finish warlordism in this country." 
	
	
 The clash has called into question Karzai's ability to govern beyond the Kabul area and bolstered his appeal for the deployment of more international troops in his country. 
	
	
 The search for kidnapped US journalist Daniel Pearl stretched into its 18th day in Pakistan with no sign of the Wall Street Journal correspondent, who was abducted while researching a story on Islamic militancy. 
	
	
	


	
Following the end of the Cold War, the United States has become the world's sole superpower and the trend of pragmatism in its foreign policy has become clearer and clearer. Pragmatism is, in the first place, the United States' traditional policy. After coming to power, unilateralism and pragmatism have become Bush's main foreign policy line. Alternate use of and complementary nature of pragmatism and unilateralism constitute the characteristics of the Bush administration's diplomacy. 
	
	
 Once coming to power, Bush insisted on deploying the National Missile Defense System [NMD]. The international community and even US western allies, including US neighbor Canada, have consistently opposed the plan. Despite the opposition, Bush went it alone. One of the main US diplomatic goals for this year is to persuade the international community to accept the NMD and Russia to agree to revise the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty [AMD] by flashing a carrot on a stick. At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was "a product of the Cold War era," and thus has lost its binding force. He even claimed that to develop the NMD, the United States would be even prepared to scrap the ABM. Over the past year, Bush increased funds for research and testing for the N!
MD and accelerated the test frequency of the anti-missile system. Even after the adoption of the resolution on "maintaining and abiding by the "Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty" on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly, the United States still persisted in carrying out a fifth missile interception test. In a word, the US development of the NMD is for the purpose of "attacking other countries and at the same time preventing other countries from attacking it," thereby genuinely securing its status of being the "sole super power." 
	
	
 The Sino-US plane collision event that occurred on 1 April can best illustrate the US alternate application of the "two-isms" in its diplomacy. In the plane collision event, if one goes by the US logic, only the US spy plane is permitted to spy at other people's doorsteps; the host, on the other hand, does not even have the right to look after its doors and to protect its yard. The responsibility for the event, in which a Chinese plane crashed and a Chinese pilot perished, lies completely with the US side. The US side not only refused to apologize to China but also claimed that "US crew members were detained by the Chinese side." It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology. But after the Chinese side released all the US crew members, major US political figures changed their stance immediately and threatened to use human rights, trade, and Olympics hosting issues to "retaliate" against China. 
	
	
 Since coming to power, Bush, proceeding from the US immediate interests, has also adopted the pragmatism and unilateralism position with regard to international treaties. This March, catering to the interests of the US oil and coal barons who have made large political donations to the Republican Party, Bush announced, without prior consultations with its allies, that the United States would not enforce the "Kyoto Protocol" which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world. This announcement was met with unanimous condemnation by the international media. 
	
	
 In July, the Bush administration decided to let the "Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty" "freeze" in the Senate. Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the "Biological Weapons Convention" and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention. 
	
	
 The Bush administration either refuses to sign, ratify, or implement international treaties or asks for their revision. It only wants the international treaties that benefit the US security and economy and globalization. It does not want anything to do with the international treaties, mechanisms, and organizations that restrict or prevent US freedom. It does not want anything to do with countries and organizations that do not follow its orders or that always cause troubles to it. 
	
	
 After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people. Supported by the world, the United States launched the "war against terrorism" of this century. Bush stressed that the war is not only the "US war" but also a "world war." The United States views itself as a "major force of anti-terrorism," for in the world only the United States has the capability to carry out the global war against terrorism. Bush said, "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists" and "any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime." The United States wants all the countries in the world to stand behind it in the fight against terrorism and decides which country is its enemy or friend on the basis of that country's attitude toward it. It is in fact like using multilateral diplomacy to enhance US unilateralism. But the United States obviously practices pragmatism in its treatment of Pakistan -- a frontline state in the fight against Pakistan. Before the 11 September event, the United States kept its distance from Pakistan and imposed sanctions on it. But after declaring a war against terrorism the United States not only drew Pakistan to its side but also provided aid to it. Whether the United States will continue to treat Pakistan in a responsible manner, it is anybody's guess. 
	
	
 Attachments: rw1205us.pdf	


	
In an antiterrorist war that at the time was initially launched as Operation Infinite Justice, it is infinitely difficult to reconcile oneself to the pictures of chained and humiliated Taliban and al-Qaida prisoners at the U.S. Guantanamo base on Cuba. The pictures resemble an attempt to satisfy a primitive thirst for revenge and convince the Americans that the Bush administration has not only succeeded in removing a regime of religious madmen in out-of-the-way Afghanistan, but also in taking prisoner some of those responsible for the terrorist acts on that day in September. 
	
	
 The U.S. and most recently the British governments reject the suggestion that the prisoners are being harmed, but this does not alter the fact that the pictures of hooded prisoners in chains are in themselves enough to paint a picture of a United States that in the name of self-righteousness - and equally worryingly: without any great amount of debate - has allowed itself to infringe international rules. 
	
	
 This impression is reinforced by the fact that for the time being at least the United States has ignored the Geneva Convention and refused to treat those taken prisoner as prisoners of war - something to which they have a right - until a competent court has decided differently. 
	
	
 Instead the superpower has entered a legal fog where the prisoners have been stamped with a nonsense term in international law: "battlefield prisoners." As such they face the prospect of being subjected to the due course of law and in the final analysis perhaps sentenced to death in closed military courts instead of in open courts, as is the right of prisoners of war under the terms of the Geneva Convention. 
	
	
 For most people it will of course be difficult to mobilize any great degree of understanding for those responsible for the bloody terrorism in the United States on that day in September, but what is at issue here is that at the present moment principles are at stake that could have far-reaching repercussions for the future war against terrorism. 
	
	
 With its behavior, therefore, the United States is not only compromising the image of the war against terrorism as an expression of a higher form of justice, but also of itself as an unshakeable defender of this same justice. This will undoubtedly rub off on the superpower's allies, including Denmark. And for this reason, too, they have a moral duty to speak out, as Swedish Foreign Minister Anna Lindh, among others, did yesterday. Otherwise they face the risk not only of undermining the legitimacy of their own antiterrorism war at present, but also of sending out a signal that despots around the world will know how to exploit. 
	
	
 Many of them have already demonstrated great skill in their own behavior when it comes to exploiting the West's fear of terrorism. 
	
	
	


	
As prisoners from Al-Qa'ida and Taliban are being transported to the cells of the US Guantanamo base in Cuba, the United States' war on terrorism enters a new stage that is completely different from that of armed confrontation in Afghanistan. 
	
	
 Amidst the heat of military battles in Afghanistan, and on the background of the double crime that hit the United States, international opinion is now willing to overlook some inhumane practices that were made on this or that front. However, the situation has changed fundamentally since the batches of Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners started arriving one after the other to Guatanamo base shackled and caged in cages that are no longer than eight feet and wider than six. The attention of the world moved from Afghanistan to Cuba to follow what Amnesty International considers an "uncomfortable situation" for the detainees. This has prompted two of Washington's closest allies, Britain and Australia, to express their "concern" over the way the prisoners were transported from Afghanistan and the way they are being treated in captivity. 
	
	
 It is obvious that statements by US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the detainees are "illegitimate fighters" upon home the Geneva convention on POW's does not apply have not helped alleviate world concern over the US abandoning its (until now) well-known commitment to the principles of justice in treating the Al-Qa'ida and Taliban prisoners. 
	
	
 The continued US ambiguity in using the title of prisoners, and specifically prisoners of war or "illegitimate" combatants, and the possibility of trying them in private and closed martial court, do not help the United States maintain international sympathy with its war. 
	
	
 As the campaign of Western criticism of the United States heightens, it has become urgent for Washington to clarify its stand on treating the prisoners and their destiny so that it would not be recorded in history that the number one democracy in the war won the war on terrorism in weeks and lost the reputation of commitment to principles of human justice that it took centuries to gain. 
	
	
	


	
Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen (Liberal Party) has voiced his approval of the U.S. treatment of the 144 al-Qaida prisoners at the U.S. Guantanamo military base on Cuba. 
	
	
 "The U.S. Government has announced that the United States will respect its international commitments," Fogh Rasmussen said at his weekly press conference on Tuesday [22 January]. 
	
	
 He points out that the United States has allowed the Red Cross to inspect conditions at the Guantanamo base. 
	
	
 Criticism From the Red Cross 
	
	
 He fails to mention, however, that on the international stage the Red Cross has subsequently criticized the U.S. treatment of prisoners. 
	
	
 EU foreign affairs spokesman Javier Solana, among others, has also criticized the United States for not recognizing the al-Qaida prisoners as prisoners of war as understood in the Geneva Convention. 
	
	
 The Swedish Government has also expressed concern about the prisoners' rights. 
	
	
 Fogh: They Must Be Given a Fair Trial 
	
	
 "The prisoners must be treated with respect for their integrity and religion, and they must be given a fair trial," Fogh Rasmussen says. 
	
	
 On Monday Liberal Party foreign affairs spokesman Troels Lund Poulsen said that the debate on prisoners' rights is "an intellectual discussion." 
	
	
 Per Stig Moller: Give Them Rights 
	
	
 Foreign Minister Per Stig Moller (Conservative People's Party) is urging the United States to guarantee the prisoners the status of prisoners of war and in consequence protection under the terms of the Geneva Convention. 
	
	
 "I expect the United States to satisfy the requirements of the international conventions," Per Stig Moller said at a press conference in Berlin on Monday. 
	
	
 " Social Democratic Party: Raise Denmark's Voice 
	
	
 The Social Democratic Party takes the view that the Danish Government should raise its voice against the United States. 
	
	
 "I do not have all the information, but there are some questionable aspects in the U.S. approach," political spokesman Mogens Lykketoft (Social Democratic Party) told Ritzau Bureau. 
	
	
 "Of course the United States has a point when it says that it can be difficult to decide who are terrorists and who are prisoners of war. We must focus on the treatment of them." 
	
	
 The Socialist People's Party is sending an "urgent call" to the government to deliver official criticism to the United States. 
	
	
 "It cannot be the duty of the Danish Government to applaud everything that the Americans do. Even though we support their action, we should criticize this form of treatment of prisoners," Socialist People's Party Chairman Holger K. Nielsen said. 
	
	
 He will now ask the foreign minister to give a written reply outlining the government's position on the issue. 
	
	
 Danish People's Party: Are They Danes? 
	
	
 The Danish People's Party sees no reason to criticize the United States. 
	
	
 "To begin with, I have great confidence that what the Americans are doing in relation to these prisoners is reasonable. I can imagine that the United States has had good reasons for transporting them to Cuba," foreign affairs spokesman Peter Skaarup (Danish People's Party) says. 
	
	
 As long as no Danes are involved, the Danish People's Party does not think that Denmark should interfere. 
	
	
 "This could of course become necessary if a Dane were involved. Otherwise it must be a matter between the United States and the countries which have citizens who are directly affected," Peter Skaarup said, alluding to the United Kingdom and Sweden. 
	
	
	


	
ANKARA, Dec 15 (A.A) - Interior Minister Rustu Kazim Yucelen released a decree on Saturday, and announced measures to be taken against illegal migration by sea. 
	
	
 The decree said that human smuggling incidents from the Turkish coasts to Greek islands, Italy and France increased recently due to economic, social and political reasons. 
	
	
 It said that the Coast Guard units had intercepted a total of 6 thousand 743 foreigners since January 1, 1996. 2,816 of these foreigners were captured in the first 11 months of 2001. 
	
	
 The Coast Guard Command has been working on a report to give detailed information about its activities against human smuggling and number of foreigners intercepted between January 1 and November 26, 2001. 
	
	
 According to the report, Turkish and Greek flagged ships, fishing boats and speed boats were used by human smugglers. 
	
	
 ``Most of the illegal migration incidents by sea happened in western provinces of Izmir, Aydin and Mugla. 28 out of 63 incidents were reported in Bodrum township of Mugla. These incidents generally increase in spring and fall. Turkish citizens from southern and southeastern provinces accounted for 31 percent. Iraqi and Afghan immigrants followed them. Having regard to the fact that 95.1 percent of foreign immigrants were coming from African and Middle Eastern countries, it becomes more difficult to prevent illegal migration from under developed countries to European countries via Turkey,`` it added.	


	
Spanish daily urges caution in judging USA's treatment of suspects 
	
	
 Text of unsigned editorial, "Treatment of the prisoners", by Spanish newspaper ABC web site on 22|January 
	
	
 The dissemination of some photos taken of a group of detainees in Guantanamo has aroused international controversy. Critics condemn the inhumane nature of the treatment the prisoners are receiving, handcuffed, immobilized with shackles, subjected to sensory deprivation and confined to minute cells. If these accusations are confirmed, the only possible definition will be torture and the violation of human rights. However, we may be witnessing a distortion of reality, and even in some cases pure falsehoods. The photos were sent voluntarily to the press by the American authorities, who clarified that they depicted a group of 20 dangerous prisoners who had recently arrived at the base and undergone a process of identification prior to their confinement. These were in no way their normal living conditions. But the decisive fact is the presence for days of the International Committee of the Red Cross, which is preparing a report and which, as usual, has refused to make any statements. It will speak in its report. Herein lies the difference. In the countries in which torture is systematically carried out, for example Cuba or China, inspection by international organizations is not permitted. The result of the report will have to be taken into account before political and moral judgments of guilty or not guilty are made. For the time being, the members of the British government who interviewed three prisoners of their nationality have received no complaints about the treatment they are receiving. Indications exist that the system to which the prisoners are subjected is excessively harsh. The United States government does not help dispel the suspicions when it refuses to consider them prisoners of war and therefore to apply the Geneva Convention to them. Nor does it seem proper to cite the fact that the base is not on American soil because it is a rented base. Backing from a majority of the public would not serve, either, as justification for the possible excesses and violations of rights. But for the time being, what exist are indications and shadows of suspicion which must materialize or be dispelled through knowledge of the facts from the relevant reports. It is another matter to launch into scandal or anti-Americanism. In any case, the attitude of the American authorities has nothing to do with the one previously and currently displayed by dictatorships and totalitarian systems, including communist ones, which permit neither inspection nor the dissemination of photographs. But this enormous difference is not enough. It must be known as soon as possible whether or not terror has been established in Guantanamo. 
	
	
	


	
For its own reasons, which are linked to its interests and, naturally, to Israel's interests, the United States chose to put intensive pressure on the Palestinian Authority. It wanted the PA to meet difficult, even impossible, security conditions. It also tried, through this pressure, to remove the legitimacy of the PA and its chairman Yasir Arafat under the pretext of terrorism or support for terrorism. This US position, which is fully biased to Israel, strengthened Israeli Prime Minister Ari'el Sharon's attempts to suppress national Palestinian ambitions and achieve his declared objective of establishing Israeli security on the rubble of the legitimate Palestinian rights. 
	
	
 It would have perhaps been logical and acceptable if Washington had demanded a mutual and concurrent cessation of the ongoing violence between the Palestinians and the Israelis and called on Israel not to exploit the calm to open the files of security revenge through assassinations and arrests. It would have been logical and acceptable if Washington had asked Israel to announce its commitment to the principle of withdrawal from the territories it occupied in 1967 and to end the settlement activity. Such demands constitute the strong base for bringing about calm and stability, putting a final end to violence and terrorism, and turning a new leaf toward fruitful negotiations leading to a just peace acceptable by all sides. 
	
	
 The situation and its tragic repercussions are being viewed only from the Israeli perspective. The killing of hundreds of Palestinians and the increase in the number of martyrs among children are being ignored. And the destruction of homes, installations, and PA infrastructure is being overlooked. This does not serve the interest of peace and the security of the peoples of the region in the long run. On the contrary, it heightens the sense of frustration among all sectors of the Palestinian people and damages the credibility of the United States as a sponsor of the peace process, indeed as an effective partner in the settlement negotiations from the start of the peace process in the late eighties until this process faltered as a result of Israel's intransigence after Sharon came to power. 
	
	
 The United States realizes that the Palestinians are serious in their efforts to achieve a just peace. The Palestinians left no avenue unexplored in their quest for a settlement that enables them to regain their legitimate rights and provides all the peoples of the region, including the Israelis, with security and stability. It is, therefore, unfair to blame the PA for the tension, and sometimes violence, that takes place as a result of the Israeli oppressive measures and activities. Every oppressive or vindictive Israeli action has a Palestinian reaction that cannot be stopped. Before 1994, Israel was in control of all the occupied Palestinian territories and yet it was unable, despite all its forces, weapons, and measures, to achieve full and comprehensive quiet in the West Bank and Gaza throughout 27 years. 
	
	
 In this context, we must note the role of all Arab and international forces in curbing Israeli military operations against Palestinian cities and residential areas and in explaining the true picture of the situation to the United States. Certainly, the intensive efforts that our big sister, Egypt, made to bridle the Israeli oppressive activity and to warn the Israeli prime minister against targeting President Arafat and the PA are highly appreciated by the Palestinian people in particular and the Arab nation in general. 
	
	
	


	
Washington, January 26 (XINHUA) -- US Secretary of State Colin Powell has asked President George W. Bush to reverse the president's decision on al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees and declare the terrorists as prisoners of war under the Geneva Convention, the Washington Times reported on Saturday. 
	
	
 A four-page internal White House memorandum obtained by the Washington Times shows that Powell made the request and that Bush' s National Security Council plans to meet on the matter Monday morning. 
	
	
 Bush decided on January 18 that hundreds of Taliban and members of Usama bin Ladin's al-Qa'ida army are detainees, and not prisoners of war, and thus not subject to rights in the Geneva Convention. 
	
	
 "The secretary of state has requested that you reconsider that decision," White House Counsel Alberto Gonzales wrote in a memo to Bush. "Specifically, he has asked that you conclude that GPW (Geneva Convention II on the Treatment of Prisoners of War) does apply to both al-Qa'ida and the Taliban fighters." 
	
	
 Human rights groups and some European countries have protested Bush's decision, and have been critical of the living conditions for 158 detainees at the US Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
	
	
	


	
Islamabad, March 18, IRNA - Central Leader of Pakistan People Party (PPP) and former provincial minister of North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) Seyed Qamar Abbas has rejected US state department report on Human Rights in Iran and other countries, saying America has no right to make such a report as it is itself the violator of human rights. He told IRNA in an interview on Monday, "America has killed thousands of innocent people in almost all parts of the globe particularly in the Muslim world. America, in the guise of its so-called war on terror, has killed and injured thousands of innocent Afghans and the prisoners of war are maltreated." A couple of weeks ago, the US state department in its annual report had revealed that Iran, Pakistan and some other countries are the violators of human rights. "America has a double standard policy. It denounces human rights violation but supports Israel for perishing the Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon," Abbas criticized. He said those countries and nations which are independant in real sense of the world and do not take dictation from the US or accepts its supremacy are labelled as human rights violators. "Those who submit to its policies are showered upon favours," he added. "America always follows its interests. In its so-called war against terrorism and against weapons of mass destruction lies its covert motive and that is its strategic and economic interests," Abbas added. However, he hoped that the people of the world can no more be kept in dark. "They can see and observe the unjust and discriminatory policies of America. People do not believe whatever the America says," he concluded.	


	
France's Chirac says Argentina must make necessary choices 
	
	
 Text of report by French news agency AFP 
	
	
 Paris, 2 January: During a telephone conversation on Wednesday [2 January] with the director general of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Horst Koehler, President Jacques Chirac stressed the need for Argentina to be able to "make the choices" imposed on it by the crisis it is going through. Reporting on the conversation, Elysee [presidency] spokeswoman Catherine Colonna said that the head of state had "expressed the hope that the Argentine authorities will know how to make the choices needed for their country's future". "France, like its partners, is in contact with international financial institutions," the president said, "and is ready to support the action of the IMF with a view to attaining a solution to this crisis." Jacques Chirac, Mrs Colonna said, also raised with the IMF director general "the situation of a number of other countries, among them Lebanon in connection with the consolidation of economic reforms in this country, with which France has special ties"!
. 
	
	
	


	
Energy Secretary Ernesto Martens has admitted that it is unfeasible to guarantee the flow of revenues to the government if the Finance Secretariat maintains its estimate that the crude export platform in 2002 will average 1.825 million barrels per day, at a price of $17.00 per barrel. 
	
	
 "One would have to talk in depth with the Finance Secretariat's people to hear the criteria that they used to establish that benchmark," he claimed, declining to give details on the manner in which the federal government's secretariats establish the price of crude in the General Criteria for Economic Policy. 
	
	
 In fact, Martens admitted that this volume of crude exports has not been achieved this year. According to Pemex [Mexican Petroleum] figures, between January and September the daily exports of barrels of oil did not exceed an average of 1.71 million. During September alone, this average dropped to 1.64 million. 
	
	
 In the General Preliminary Criteria for Economic Policy 2002, the final text of which is being presented to Congress by the government today, the Finance Secretariat estimated an average price of $17.00 per barrel for the crude mixture, and predicted that the export platform would be 1.825 million barrels per day. 
	
	
 The volume appears large in the current economic context, when oil prices have fallen back to 1999 levels. Hence, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), will decide at its meeting on Wednesday whether or not to cut its worldwide crude production in an effort to shore up energy prices. 
	
	
 Traditionally, Mexico has supported the OPEC cutbacks; however, analysts agreed that it will now tend to support the United States, the main world consumer, and the one that would be adversely affected by a possible increase in crude prices. 
	
	
 George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, expressed this opinion: "In the event that the Mexican Government gives priority to its relationship with the United States, it will not be a game without risks. And it is possible that, at some given time, OPEC may hand it the bill for not collaborating in the reduction of the oil supply." 
	
	
 He noted that the Mexican economy is very closely linked to that of the United States, and hence no oil producer, whether a member of OPEC or not, is in such a disadvantageous situation. 
	
	
 Frederic Lasserre, an energy sector analyst for the firm Societe Generale, held the view that Mexico's close relationship with the United States prevents it from becoming more committed to OPEC. 
	
	
 "The US authorities would not like to have it (Mexico) as a trading partner and, at the same time, close to OPEC," he observed. 
	
	
 With regard to prices, he gave a reminder that the reason that prompted Mexico to collaborate with OPEC in 1998 was, in fact, the decline in them. 
	
	
 But Ken Miller, from the firm Purvin &amp;amp; Gertz, included an additional factor. 
	
	
 "Mexico sought out the leading producers: Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, not only for the prices, but also because of the competition on the crude oil market (in US territory)," he claimed, pointing out that prices have not yet fallen as low as they did then. 
	
	
 In 1998, the Mexican oil mixture averaged $10.17 per barrel: now, the lowest levels have reached $14.00 per barrel. 
	
	
 Miller remarked that the worldwide economic slowdown has shrunk the demand for energy sources, which could lead the independent producers, including Mexico, to operate in coordination with the oil cartel. 
	
	
 Nevertheless, according to the researcher from the UNAM [National Autonomous University of Mexico] Economics Department, Angel de la Vega, since the Fox administration does not have the security of a fiscal reform available, it cannot be ruled out that Mexico might collaborate with OPEC in the event of a more serious reduction in oil prices. 
	
	
 Miguel Garcia Reyes, a specialist in petroleum geopolitics at the College of Mexico, claimed that Mexico's distancing from OPEC has become more intensified since the attacks on the United States. 
	
	
 He emphasized: "Now Mexico is positioned between two fronts: it recognizes the need for reducing the supply on the market, but the policy is to support the United States and supply it with more crude if it should become necessary." 
	
	
 In terms of market, the Mexican exports do not play an important role, but the support for OPEC on the part of Mexico, Venezuela, and Saudi Arabia in 1998 and 1999 lent credibility to the policy of cutbacks, and achieved the recovery of prices. 
	
	
 Promises Are Cheap 
	
	
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has agreed on three cuts in its production thus far this year, for the purpose of preventing the crude prices from becoming weaker. Nevertheless, it has not kept its promises. 
	
	
 Crude Production Quotas (figures in thousands of barrels per day) 
	
	
 Current Production Quota Real Production Difference 
	
	
 OPEC* Mexico** OPEC* Mexico** OPEC* Mexico** 
	
	
 01 Apr 00 24,692 1,675 24,600 1,534 -92 -141 21 Jun 00 25,392 1,750 25,280 1,684 -112 -66 01 Oct 00 25,892 1,750 26,360 1,720 468 -30 31 Oct 00 26,192 1,750 26,450 1,549 258 -201 01 Feb 01 25,201 1,750 26,800 1,750 1,599 0 01 Apr 01 24,201 1,710 25,670 1,757 1,469 47 01 Sep 01 23,201 1,640 24,745 1,649 1,544 9 
	
	
 "Without counting Iraq/** Export platform 
	
	
 Source: Reforma Analysis Department, based on data from Middle East Survey and Pemex. 
	
	
	


	
THE ABDUCTION of a French diplomat's wife on Thursday has introduced a political dimension to the kidnap-for-ransom pestilence that has spread dramatically during the past 10 months. 
	
	
 The kidnap gang freed her and her driver within two hours of seizure. No ransom was paid. 
	
	
 The abduction, however, delivered a more devastating blow on the capacity of the Macapagal administration to crack down on kidnap syndicates than the grim statistics trotted out by Teresita Ang-See, the Chinese-Filipino anti-crime "crusader," who has relished the role of Cassandra to the Philippine National Police under the new administration. 
	
	
 Since 1992 when organized crime became a leading preoccupation in the national agenda, the main victims of the predatory syndicates have been Ang-See's compatriots in the Chinese-Filipino community. 
	
	
 The conventional explanation is that because of their wealth, they are the logical prey from which to extract ransom money--a perverse form of nationalist racism and redistribution of national wealth. 
	
	
 The Abu Sayyaf kidnapping of foreigners in Sipadan, Malaysia, and in Dos Palmas, Palawan, broke this ethnicity pattern. 
	
	
 But the seizure of the diplomat's wife and her driver was the first time in 10 years that the gangs struck at members of the diplomatic community, whose immunity has been somehow respected by organized syndicates. 
	
	
 The seizure sent alarm bells ringing in the diplomatic community in this country. The repercussions in the home governments and countries are as damaging as the prolonged hostage-taking by the Abu Sayyaf of French, German, Malaysian, Lebanese and Finnish nationals during the Estrada administration. 
	
	
 Then President Joseph Estrada had to cancel visits to Paris and other European capitals in 2000 after he was told that he would receive a hostile reception from the European public over the lengthy impasse of negotiations for the hostages' release. 
	
	
 From my own sources in the diplomatic community, as well as in the Philippine National Police, the diplomat's wife and her driver went to the French school in Bicutan at around 10 a.m., in response to a call from school authorities who reported that her son had some accident. 
	
	
 On the way, a group of about six armed men in uniforms blocked her brand-new car (which had no diplomatic plate) at Better Living Subdivision, Paranaque, and boarded it. 
	
	
 The gang drove the car around the vicinity while they interrogated the victims for about two hours. The hijackers asked them for money--one million pesos was mentioned--which she had supposedly withdrawn from the bank. She told them she had not withdrawn such money and that she was the wife of a senior French diplomat. The gunmen let her go. 
	
	
 The PNP, which believes it was a case of mistaken identity, could not explain why it took the gang two hours to know the identity of the lady. 
	
	
 After detaining them for about two hours, they drove her and the driver to a squatters' area and dropped them off near the Bicutan exit, but not before they took her necklace and wallet. 
	
	
 They did not take her ring and other pieces of jewelry. The gang fled with the car, and the victims took a tricycle home. The details of the crime and the swift release are less important than the political implications. Whether the incident was plain holdup, as the PNP would like to see it, the abduction reinforced the growing perception in the diplomatic community and foreign governments that there is a breakdown in law and order and that the Macapagal administration is not in control. 
	
	
 This perception is also fueled by the crime statistics of Ang-See, who represents the pessimistic outlook in contrast to the more dismissive outlook of the PNP whose statistics are less alarming than those of Ang-See. 
	
	
 While Ang-See's statistics, derived mainly from non-official sources, paint a grim picture, they should not be ignored. 
	
	
 At the same time, the PNP can't be burying its head in the sand and offering explanations all the time, rather than check the rise of kidnappings. 
	
	
 Ang-See's close collaboration with former PNP chief, now Sen. Panfilo Lacson, is an open secret. Some administration officials wonder whether she paints doomsday scenarios just to embarrass the administration and to portray the contrast in performance between the PNP under Lacson and the current PNP leadership, which has no love lost with Lacson. 
	
	
 Since the members of the diplomatic community had previously been immune from the predatory attacks of the gang, the abduction of the diplomat's wife naturally has generated anxieties among foreign governments about how safe their diplomats are in this country. 
	
	
 There is a strong perception in the diplomatic community that the abduction was a fake kidnap-for- ransom and was a political act to demonstrate the administration's incapacity to put crime under control. 
	
	
 The reasoning behind this perception is that if the gangs were after ransom money, it did not matter whether their victims belonged to the diplomatic community. 
	
	
 The perception is that there was a political message in the abductions staged by some groups that are determined to make this government fail. 
	
	
 A number of embassies here, including the American, French, German and Japanese, have issued advisories to their nationals warning them of risks when travelling in some parts of the country. 
	
	
 The advisories have been prompted by domestic lawlessness and political turbulence rather than by a possible outbreak of insidious terrorist attacks associated with al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden and provoked by the American military action in Afghanistan. 
	
	
 At the rate syndicates are abducting targets--regardless of their ethnic identity and their diplomatic status--with impunity, the administration faces a more serious and direct challenge to its capacity to govern from the specter of lawlessness than from the daunting problem of sparking an economic recovery amid the global economic downturn. 
	
	
 We don't need al-Qaida terrorist attacks in this country to bring the government down in turmoil, create uncertainties in the business community, and frighten tourists and investors away. 
	
	
 The diplomatic community's perception of President Macapagal is that she is organized, knows her economics, does her homework, and has been unscathed by scandals that have been rubbed on her skin by a scandal-mongering opposition. 
	
	
 But the downside is that the deterioration of peace and order is her nemesis that is undoing all her diplomatic initiatives in the world stage to project the Philippines as a staunch ally in the US-led coalition in the war on international terrorism. 
	
	
 Some diplomats raise questions about her priorities. They think she is travelling too much, while internal problems sap the country's energy, and that she has misplaced strategic priorities in her overseas visits. 
	
	
 The fire is raging at home, these sources say, not in the United States, China, Japan or Afghanistan. Her hoses have to be directed at internal terrorism. She has more dangerous enemies at home than elsewhere.	


	
Spanish daily blasts "meaningless" US announcement on Guantanamo detainees 
	
	
 Text of unsigned editorial headlined "The USA tramples on the rights of all the Guantanamo prisoners" published by Spanish newspaper El Mundo web site on 9|February 
	
	
 The White House spokesman announced the night before last that the Taleban prisoners being held in Guantanamo will enjoy the treatment envisaged under the Geneva Convention, but not the foreign prisoners from Al-Qai'dah, who the Bush administration considers terrorists. The Geneva Convention is the international treaty signed in 1949 by the USA and other countries, which regulates the treatment of prisoners of war and grants them a set of legal and humanitarian rights. Bush's spokesman added that none of the 158 detainees in Guantanamo is going to be given prisoner-of-war status, which makes the apparently positive part of the White House statement meaningless. The USA refuses to admit that these detainees are prisoners of war because, under the Convention, they would have the right not to answer any questions except to give their name and rank, they could not be tried except for war crimes and they would have to be repatriated after the war ends. So when the White House says it is going to treat the Taleban in accordance with the Geneva Convention, it is pure rhetoric, nothing other than a public relations exercise and will be meaningless in practice. The key issue is not so much whether they are treated humanely and their beliefs respected, but their legal status. If they don't enjoy the advantages of being prisoners of war and do not have the right to be tried under US criminal law, what jurisdiction will be used for these men being held incommunicado in a place that isn't the USA or Cuba? Nobody in the US government has answered this question, even though international organizations like the Red Cross and Human Rights Watch have denounced the defenceless situation of these prisoners, who have no access to lawyers and do not enjoy the minimum guarantees for judicial proceedings which, in their case, do not exist. Donald Rumsfeld and other senior Washington officials have tried to justify what is happening in Guantanamo on the grounds that the detainees are dangerous terrorists. That may be the case, but even the worst criminals have the right to a lawyer and to know the charges against them. It can only be paradoxical that a supposedly model democracy like the USA can trample on the law to such an extent. 
	
	
	


	
Norway should be in the forefront of combating climate problems. The government wants to play an active role internationally but we should also work on reducing emissions here at home. 
	
	
 "The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year," Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written. Between now and 2008, the government's environmental initiative will be given concrete form in a report to the Storting this spring, in which an early quota system will occupy a central place. 
	
	
 Norway and the other rich countries have a moral responsibility to achieve real reductions. Regardless of what Norway and other countries manage to do in this respect, we must prepare ourselves for climate changes. According to the United Nations' climate panel, in the next 10 to 20 years changes in the climate will be almost unaffected by what we do in the way of initiatives in the next few years to reduce emissions of climate gases. The explanation is that the increased concentration of climate gases in the atmosphere and the slowness of the climate system will make a certain degree of global warming unavoidable. 
	
	
 In recent years the RegClim research project, under the aegis of the Norwegian Research Council, has worked to estimate the way the climate will develop in Norway in 30 to 50 years. The main conclusions were that the trend toward warmer weather and more precipitation will presumably continue. 
	
	
 The climate changes will be different from region to region. The western part of Norway will experience the markedly greatest increase in precipition in the fall. North Norway will also get more precipitation in the fall but warmer temperatures in the winter. In the eastern part of Norway the biggest increase in precipitation will be in the winter. In coming years the winters will be less snowy but greener and wetter. 
	
	
 These extrapolations of the state of the climate are not completely reliable. Even if we can say with great certainty that climate changes will come, we need more knowledge about the effects . 
	
	
 How must local societies organize themselves if a couple of hurricanes every year become normal? How should we prepare ourselves for more and bigger floods? What consequences will the increase in temperature have for raising livestock and fish? Will climate changes produce new types of pests that will create problems? For the next few years our goal is to both gain more knowledge and put together good preparedness strategies. 
	
	
 All the world's countries and peoples are affected by climate changes but it is the poor countries that are being hit the hardest. Even if developing countries have contributed to these climate problems to just a slight degree, they will nevertheless bear the greatest burden. 
	
	
 Norway and other industrialized countries, on the other hand, have fairly good prospects of grappling with climate changes because we have an economy to put necessary measures to work. We must avoid seeing environmental problems increase the social differences in the world. For that reason the rich countries-those making the climate worse-must go on the offensive to solve the problems we ourselves have created. 
	
	
 In the Sem statement the coalition government warned of a more offensive climate policy. An offensive climate police will bring costs with it. But if we do not make these expenditures now, the bill for the generations to come will be even bigger. This our conscience ought not to permit us. 
	
	
 The challenge will be to introduce the most cost-effective climate policy possible and at the same time take Norwegian business and industry's competitiveness into consideration. 
	
	
 The elements in a more offensive climate policy are: 
	
	
 Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005. We are setting the stage for Norway to get national initiatives under way earlier than we are required to under the Kyoto Protocol. The government's policy statement states, among other things, that the establishment of a national quota system should be speeded up. 
	
	
 Implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. The government wants to set the stage for Norway to ratify the Kyoto Protocol next year. There is consensus that a broad quota system with international quota exchange should be used to achieve our emission responsibilities during the first obligatory period, 2008-2012. 
	
	
 Pursue the international climate negotiations. The consensus that has been achieved internationally about the period 2008-2012 is just the first step down the road. For later periods, sharper reductions are necessary and there is also the need to get more countries to take on climate obligations. Norway still wants to play an active role in this process. 
	
	
 The report to the Storting that the government is preparing for the spring will further specify which measures will be implemented between now and 2008. A proposal for an early quota system will be at the center of this report. There exists the potential for significant reductions in climate gas emissions in Norway that will not produced with today's resources. The use of quotas will be a cost-effective means of achieving better results. 
	
	
 A quota is a right to emit a certain quantity of climate gases during a certain period and this right can be sold on a market. The advantages are that the authorities can set a ceiling on all emissions. Businesses that are obligated by a quota can then choose whether they want to buy those quotas they need or introduce measures to reduce emissions. 
	
	
 Many countries, among them Denmark, Great Britain, and Sweden, are already under way developing early quota systems. In addition to being effective, an early quota system would also give business and industry useful experience before the international quota system following the Kyoto Protocol comes into effect in 2008. 
	
	
 In the government's work to put the quota system into shape in Norway, we are now discussing a number of problems. Some of these are: 
	
	
 The range-which gases and sectors should be included in the quota system, and how businesses exposed to competition should be dealt with. 
	
	
 Measures about emissions-how much all of those obligated by a quota can emit. 
	
	
 Fines for exceeding the quota limit. 
	
	
 The possibility of cooperating with other countries' early quota systems. 
	
	
 I am pleased that there now seems to be broad political consensus that in Norway as well we should get under way with an early quota system. 
	
	
 Regardless of the shape of the measures in Norway, Norwegian businesses as well ought to contribute to reducing emissions in poor countries. The green development mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol opens the way for businesses from industrialized countries to pay for the introduction of more environmentally-friendly technology in polluting industries in developing countries. This mechanism can already be used-and before 2008, too. In addition to producing climate benefits, such measures will contribute to development and reduced local pollution in poor countries. 
	
	
 Norway is one of the countries in this world that has earned the most from fossil fuels. This gives us a special responsibility in climate policy-not least vis-a-vis the poorest countries. 
	
	
	


	
President Bush's projection of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' and his threat of military action against them has evoked world-wide criticism. Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov said after meeting US Vice President Dick Cheney in Washington that there is no evidence of weapons' proliferation against these nations to substantiate the US charge. French officials said that the rhetoric of good and evil is not suitable for the realities of today's world. Former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said that Bush has made a 'big mistake' by lumping the three nations together as they are different from each other. NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson said in New York that credible evidence will be prerequisite for NATO's support for any military action against the three nations. 
	
	
 The lumping of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as 'axis of evil' by President Bush has certainly not raised US image. It has rather tarnished it, since the international community expects a mature, compassionate and civilised conduct from the United States as the only superpower in the world. It should have been on the side of the smaller and weaker nations, rather than targeting them one by one in the pursuit of its global agenda. It should have worked to eliminate injustice, instead of trying to harass other countries for national prejudices. The world expects a civilised conduct from the United States in place of arrogance, discrimination and injustice. Washington is, in fact, treading a path of coercion, intimidation and blackmailing against the smaller and weaker nations. President Bush is intolerant to the dissent to his policy of domination in total negation of the lofty principles of morality, ethic and democracy, which he assertively holds so dear to his heart. If terrorism is to be fought successfully, the United States should better withdraw its support to the forces of injustice, tyranny and oppression in the world. Fight against poverty alone will not be a productive effort to fight terrorism. It's injustice that breeds hatred and revolt. Let Middle East be the test ground for US sincerity to fight terrorism. Its unfettered support to Israel is based on injustice and this distortion in its policies needs to be removed to ensure its own security as well as that of its allies. 
	
	
	


	
Following the presidential vote in Zimbabwe, there is just one thing Robert Mugabe cannot be reproached for, and that is having made a secret of his determination to stay in power by every possible means. The electoral hijacking had been announced, prepared, and organized. It has now taken place. Should one be surprised? Since he nearly lost his parliamentary majority in June 2000, the head of state has stated and restated to his supporters that the presidential election was going to be a "war." He was as good as his word. 
	
	
 The "war for land" continued, at the risk of causing famine. The army swore allegiance to the "father of independence," regardless of the verdict at the ballot box. The independence of Zimbabwe's justice system was compromised. The local press was harassed. The opposition MDC (Movement for Democratic Change) was the victim of "state terrorism" that its candidate Morgan Tsvangirai rightly condemned after being beaten in an election loaded against him from start to finish, from drawing up the electoral lists to counting the votes. The real secret of the ballot box will never be revealed. 
	
	
 This "fait accompli" in Zimbabwe is a challenge for the international community. It can only rise to meet it by making some radical changes. Indignant protests apart, nothing was done to prevent the disaster awaiting one of the key countries in southern Africa, seen as the continent's growth pole. The weapon of so-called "intelligent" sanctions proved ineffective, especially as the punitive measures were taken too late and only served to deny Robert Mugabe and his associates trips abroad and access to the funds they have spirited away. They amounted to no more than a ban on holidays and a golden retirement. Finally and most importantly, Great Britain remained locked in the familiar psychodrama between the former colonizer and colonized. Africa, with its own "observers," has just ratified a shameful electoral sham. Kenya and Tanzania even "congratulated" Robert Mugabe on his re-election after the first round. 
	
	
 It is time to speak the language of truth. Either the absence of democracy in Africa is no longer any more of a problem for Europe than the lack of development, or it is time to get serious about "good governance" as a condition for aid. Either the New Partnership for African Development (Nepad) is merely to entertain the international gallery during the occasional conference on "sustainable development" or Africa must itself impose a minimum of probity and respect for fundamental liberties. It has the means. Robert Mugabe remains in power thanks to the maize, oil, and electricity he supplies to South Africa. In Zimbabwe it is better to have an end to the torment than torment without end. 
	
	
 Fortunately, Europe is no longer "Africa's policeman." But it must demand that the countries of Africa put their own house in order. 
	
	
 
	
	
	


	
Taipei, Jan. 3 (CNA) -- Premier Chang Chun-hsiung expressed alarm Thursday at reports that a legislator was kidnapped and held for three days in a Taipei hotel, saying that his government will do its utmost to stop gangsters from preying on lawmakers. 
	
	
 Presiding over an inter-agency conference on social order, Chang asked the police to catch the gangsters who allegedly detained Legislator Huang Hsien-chou at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Taipei. 
	
	
 Later that day, a man was arrested in Taipei in relation to the case. Chang Fu-shun, 27, is said to be the younger brother of Chang Hui-hua, who allegedly invited Huang to meet her at the hotel and who Huang claimed was in the hotel room when he was detained. 
	
	
 Huang claimed the previous day in Taichung that he had been trapped by the gangsters, who had pretended to be his political supporters. 
	
	
 Huang told reporters that the gangsters, who included at least two men and a woman, made an appointment to meet him at the hotel Dec. 26. When he arrived, he claimed, one of them offered him a drink and he lost consciousness after drinking it. 
	
	
 When he awoke, he found that his hands and feet had been bound. The gangsters demanded NT$2 million from him but finally settled for NT$800,000 which they withdrew using Huang's credit card. 
	
	
 Huang was released Dec. 31 and reported to police that day. 
	
	
 Huang revealed what he claimed to be the whole story at a news conference Wednesday night after press reports said he had in fact been caught with prostitutes in the hotel and blackmailed. 
	
	
 The police said that the hotel room had been paid for by a woman who checked in under the name of Lin An, which they said was an alias used by Chang Hui-hua. 
	
	
	


	
The great leader [yongdoja] Comrade Kim Chong-il has pointed out: 
	
	
 "Although the imperialists and reactionaries speak ill of socialism and pretend to be the 'advocates of human rights,' they are the ones who really abuse human rights." 
	
	
 At a recent United Nations meeting, the United States picked a quarrel with us by speaking as if our country had a "human rights problem." This was not the first time the United States acted this way. More often than not, the United States, acting as if it were an "adjudicator of human rights," published the so-called "Annual Human Rights Report" and "Annual Report on International Religious Freedom," attempting to teach a lesson or two to countries -- including our country -- it deems disagreeable. 
	
	
 The United States, however, is not qualified to speak of "human rights" in other countries. One can easily talk in a similar manner of the racial discrimination in the United States which is becoming more serious with the passage of time. Many people in the United States have their human rights ruthlessly trampled upon simply because they are colored. 
	
	
 According to a poll conducted jointly by the US daily "The Washington Post" and Harvard University, people are wondering whether the American society is not reverting to the 1960s when racial discrimination was very serious. A total of 1,709 people, including blacks, Latinos, and Asians, participated in the poll. They responded that three out of ten blacks could not find job or have been denied responsible positions in the workplace simply because they were blacks and eight out of ten blacks and two thirds of the Latinos and Asians said they had suffered persecution and had been subjected to abusive language. 
	
	
 Ali Barr [name as published], a black man working at a TV station in Atlanta, has recently experienced racial discrimination in a restaurant. When Ali Barr and his company entered the restaurant, ten white people inside the restaurant appeared surprised to see them and a waitress told them to leave the premise immediately. Recalling the scene, Ali Barr said: "Myself and my company were racially discriminated against. I can never forget what I saw that day as long as I live." 
	
	
 As a result of racial discrimination, many among the ethnic minorities reportedly have been driven out of urban areas. According to 2000 vital statistics released not so long ago in the United States, one out of four residents of the suburban areas was an ethnic minority. This figure is said to be 5 percent higher than it was a decade ago. 
	
	
 People will likely remember the fact that the United States withdrew its delegation from the UN conference against racism held last September in Durban, South Africa. In the beginning, the United States refused to send a delegation, but eventually dispatched a low-level delegation. When voices critical of the Israelis' violation of the Palestinian people's human rights were raised at the conference, the United States went so far as to withdraw its delegation. 
	
	
 Since this is how a government claiming to represent its people behaves in international settings, it is no wonder people at home follow the government's example. 
	
	
 Instead of talking about "human rights issues" of other countries, the United States should find out how things are in its own house where the abuse of human rights is rampant and make effort to rectify the practices. 
	
	
	


	
The attacks on the World Trade Center Towers and the Pentagon were attacks on the freedoms and values for which the United States and the Western world stand, President Bush declared shortly afterward, and many people in Europe repeated it after him. 
	
	
 There is a great deal of truth in that, but in the light of what has happened afterwards, the question arises as to whether the Americans and their allies themselves are not sometimes inclined to sacrifice these values for the "good cause." There is no doubt that a military operation and intensified security measures were imperative after the terrible tragedy of 11 September. That al-Qa'ida terrorists and Taliban fighters are not very concerned about the human suffering that they have caused is also generally known. However, the ends -- dealing with those opponents -- does not justify all the means. 
	
	
 There is, in the first place, the case of the military action in Afghanistan. Apart from the reasons or justification for such an action, all the combatants' war conduct must be constantly tested against the standards of international humanitarian law; that is, the rules which curb the use of force during a military operation. Back in 1949, it was agreed by nearly all the states in the world that the sufferings of war must henceforth become more bearable, especially for those who are not directly involved in the conflict. These rules, laid down in the four Geneva Conventions, provide, among other things, for the protection of sick and wounded servicemen and prisoners of war. In addition, attempts must be made to prevent any unnecessary suffering by both military personnel and civilians by, for instance, imposing restrictions on the use of weapons. 
	
	
 But the greatest attention is paid to the fate of the civilian population: In principle, the latter can never be the object of a military operation. Hence, humanitarian law requires that in all circumstances a distinction be made between military targets and those not involved in the armed conflict. The two supplementary protocols to the Geneva Conventions, adopted in 1977, increase, among other things, the protection of the civilian population. Many countries are parties to them, but the United States has not ratified these protocols, so that the additional protection they offer is difficult to enforce in a conflict in which US troops are taking part. 
	
	
 Although it is doubtful that all the news reaches us from Afghanistan, a great many press reports suggest that humanitarian law was violated regularly over the past few weeks. This has happened despite solemn pledges to the United Nations that the United States "is committed to minimizing civilian casualties and damage to civilian property." 
	
	
 Hence you can hardly speak of a "targeting error" when a Red Cross warehouse, although clearly recognizable by the large red cross painted on the roof, was shelled twice by US aircraft. Such a building enjoys the highest possible protection, and can and should never be the object of an attack, unless it is clearly established that it is being used for military purposes. 
	
	
 In other case, too, it seems doubtful that the crucial distinction between military and civilian targets was made systematically. Newspaper headlines such as "United Nations Confirms US Bombing of Village and Mosque" and "100 Killed in Bombing in Eastern Afghanistan" speak for themselves. According to witnesses, these were attacks in an area where neither al-Qa'ida troops nor Taliban had been observed. Even if these attacks were directed against a clear military target, the large number of civilian casualties would still never be justifiable, because whoever plans a military attack must take all precautions to prevent such a tragedy. 
	
	
 Not only with the protection of the civilian population does something sometimes go wrong. Secretary Rumsfeld's statements (on 20 November 2001) that "the United States is not inclined to negotiate surrenders, nor are we in a position, with relatively small numbers of forces on the ground, to accept prisoners," and that "my hope is that they will be either killed or taken prisoner (by the Northern Alliance)" also suggested that death would be the only way out of the conflict for the Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters. That would amount to a flagrant violation of humanitarian law: whoever ceases fighting for whatever reason is entitled to protection. It is all the more to be deplored that such statements come from somebody who, as a senior commander, serves as an example to others regarding the observance of rules of humanitarian law. 
	
	
 Now, nearly two months later, concern about the fate of the captive Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters has further increased. Moving the captives to the Guantanamo Bay military base on Cuba is rightly whipping up a storm of protest. Humanitarian law leaves no doubt that those who fall captive in their opponent's hands are entitled at all times to decent treatment, even if they do not qualify for prisoner of war status. Transporting these people, shackled hand and foot and with hoods over their heads, shaving their beards -- which form part of their religious identity -- and their "accommodation" in half-open and cages that are much too small can probably never pass this test... 
	
	
 The consequences of 11 September are also making themselves felt far from the battlefield. Shortly after its decision to take military action, the Bush administration also decided to provide the press with only sparse information about the course of the operation. Because press freedom -- the jewel of the US Constitution -- can be restricted for reasons of national security. The right of citizens to such information about their government's actions is crippled by the fact that it is being accepted for the present without much complaint. 
	
	
 Under the protest of international and US human rights organizations but with the approval of large sections of the population, antiterrorism measures are being adopted in great haste. Foreigners suspected of maintaining (loose) ties with terrorist organizations can be detained indefinitely. There is uncertainty about the precise number, but it is certain that over 1,000 men from the Middle East have already been arrested. 
	
	
 In the media, the possibility of questioning presumed terrorists very roughly is also being considered aloud. The need for timely and accurate information about possible new attacks is naturally particularly great, but whether the global ban on torture can be abused on that account is another matter. 
	
	
 What raises even more questions is the order that President Bush issued last November. Through that, the United States can detain and try anybody who is not a US citizen and who is suspected of being a member of al-Qa'ida or of being involved in international terrorism in one way or another. Only special military commissions can try them. It is stated in black and white that it is hardly feasible for these commissions to apply the normal principles of law and rules of evidence. Consequently, evidence will be accepted that "a normal person" deems to have the value of evidence. Hence guilt need not be established "beyond reasonable doubt," nor is there any mention of a presumption of innocence. Appeal is not possible, but the death penalty is. On the other hand, US Taliban or al-Qa'ida fighters, such as the recently captured John Walker Lindh, will be tried by ordinary US criminal courts. 
	
	
 There also seems to be a difference among the foreigners: In all likelihood, captured British fighters will be sent to Britain after questioning. Presumed war criminals such as Milosevic enjoy all the guarantees of a fair trial, but the Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters at Guantanamo will get a trial which falls far short of the basic standards of the US Constitution and the treaty on civil and political rights ratified by the United States. 
	
	
 Not in the United States alone are the screws being tightened. A number of other countries have sharpened their laws following 11 September, from increased detention possibilities to stricter legislation on asylum and immigration. In December 2001, the UK proclaimed a state of emergency and passed the Antiterrorism, Crime, and Security Act. Whenever there is a suspicion that a foreigner is involved in international terrorism, he will be arrested and imprisoned. If it emerges that the person concerned cannot be removed from British territory because he is in serious danger in his own country, he can be detained almost indefinitely under this law. 
	
	
 Other states have used the US tragedy to polish their own image. Out of well-understood self-interest, countries such as Russia, China, and Israel joined in the Bush administration's anti-terrorism campaign, because it enabled them to compare their domestic situation with the US situation and ask for moral support for the fight they have been waging against terrorism for years. Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon called Palestinian leader Arafat "Our Usama Bin Ladin." 
	
	
 The fight against terrorism is undoubtedly justified, but, as with every struggle, it also holds true that the fundamental principles of human rights and humanitarian law must be respected. Observance of these rules will not insure that the fight against terrorism is lost; it will prove respect for human dignity, of which the West is rightly a champion. 
	
	
	


	
AMMAN -- After months of low-profile activities, the 14 professional associations held their first anti-normalisation conference on Sunday during which they renewed calls for severing all ties with "the Zionist enemy." 
	
	
 More than 50 participants, most of them members of the unions' Anti-Normalisation Committee, took part in the one-day conference, held against a backdrop of uncertainty as to the future of the 10-year-old peace process. 
	
	
 The speakers outlined the plight of the Palestinians under occupation and the suffering of Iraqi people facing crippling international sanctions for the eleventh consecutive year. 
	
	
 They also lambasted "US-British aggression on Iraq and meddling in its internal affairs." 
	
	
 "Normalisation with the Zionist enemy is a crime against the country, nation and humanity," read one of the banners hoisted at the Professional Associations Complex. 
	
	
 According to Council of Unions' president Mohammad Oran, the anti- normalisation drive remains an Arab, Muslim and human goal. It is also a binding decision taken by the professional associations' general assembly, after Jordan sealed a peace treaty with Israel in October 1994. 
	
	
 Former Hamas spokesperson Ibrahim Ghosheh and spokesperson for the Muslim Brotherhood Jamil Abu Baker took part in the conference. 
	
	
 Sunday's gathering is the first such public event since authorities cracked down early last year on the anti-normalisation committee after they made public a blacklist of Jordanians they claimed had established "ties with the Jewish state." 
	
	
 During Sunday's conference, nine papers were discussed. 
	
	
 Political affiliation among association members lean heavily towards Islamist, pan-Arab and leftist groups. 
	
	
 Conference participants warned against Israeli "expansionist plans" and argued that the peace treaty was in favour of the "Zionist enemy." 
	
	
 They called for "ostracising" those who deal with Israeli partners and maintaining a total boycott of the Jewish state at the grassroots level. 
	
	
 On the official level, relations between Jordan and Israel have been strained since the outbreak of the Intifada 16 months ago. Jordan has delayed sending its ambassador designate, Abdul Ilah Kurdi, to Tel Aviv. 
	
	
 The conference also honoured the families of Jordanian detainees in Israeli jails. 
	
	
	


	
LONDON, Jan 24 (AFP) -- British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Thursday [24 January] it was "far preferable" that British prisoners held at the US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba should face justice in Britain. 
	
	
 Three Britons are among 158 captured al-Qa'ida and Taliban fighters detained at the camp. They were captured in Afghanistan during the US-led military campaign against the country's now-crumbled hardline Taliban regime. 
	
	
 "It is far preferable if they are British citizens for them to come to the United Kingdom and face justice here," Straw told BBC radio. 
	
	
 He was speaking after American John Walker Lindh, captured while fighting for the Taliban, arrived handcuffed and shackled at Dulles International Airport outside the US capital late Wednesday and was taken to a nearby jail. 
	
	
 He faces trial in his own country on charges of conspiring to kill US nationals and supporting terrorist groups. 
	
	
 The US military put on hold transfers of prisoners to the Cuba base Wednesday. 
	
	
 International criticism of conditions at the makeshift camp have grown since the first detainees were transferred from Afghanistan earlier this month. 
	
	
 The prisoners are being held at the temporary outdoor detention facility called "Camp X-Ray" where each has a separate cell with a concrete floor, wooden roof and chain-link walls.	


	
(CORR)Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol 
	
	
 (Correcting "handed over" in line 2 to read "sent". Corrected version follows.) 
	
	
 Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe 
	
	
 Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have sent a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change. In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community. They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development. To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed. "Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add. However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification. They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change". 
	
	
	


	
Spanish premier, EU leader urge Russia to ratify Kyoto Protocol 
	
	
 Text of report by Spanish news agency Efe 
	
	
 Barcelona, 14 March: The current president of the EU, Jose Maria Aznar, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, have handed over a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin in which they urge him to promote the ratification by Russia of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change. In the letter, to which Efe has had access, Aznar and Prodi explain that on 4 March the council of EU environment ministers agreed the adoption of a decision for approval of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change on behalf of the European Community. They explain that this agreement is an important step for the EU in fulfilling the political pledge to achieve ratification of the Protocol before the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development. To this end, Aznar and Prodi report that only the internal ratification processes in each of the member states have now to be concluded and they emphasize that these are at an advanced stage and in some cases have been completed. "Therefore, we have complete confidence that the instruments of ratification of the European Community and of the 15 member states will be able to be lodged with the Secretariat of the United Nations within the time scale anticipated, in other words, in early June of this year," they add. However, the letter emphasizes that for the Kyoto Protocol to be able to enter into force in the near future it is not enough for EU ratification to be guaranteed and they thus urge Putin to ensure that Russia also moves ahead with ratification. They make this request "convinced of the Russian Federation's resolute commitment to the Kyoto Protocol" and believing that in this manner the EU and Russia would continue to show the "leadership" which they believe they have shared "with such fruitful results, in international cooperation in the fight against climate change". 
	
	
	


	
Australia's plans to construct a space port on Christmas Island, located just a stone's throw, a mere 500 kilometres south of Jakarta, has concerned some in the Indonesian Government. Although diplomatic overtures to express official objections have not yet been made, the government through the National Space and Flight Agency has already warned of the possible risks facing Indonesia. The nation should certainly be concerned about the plans to build a rocket launch pad, work on the infrastructure for which is due to start in 2002, with launches beginning from 2004. The problem is, this large-scale project right in our own backyard could not only potentially cause space debris consisting of bits of rocket, fuel and satellites to fall into Indonesian territory, but will also disrupt flights and shipping. 
	
	
 If a rocket launch fails, debris weighing hundreds of tonnes will be scattered over the densely-populated island of Java or the tourist island of Bali, and on to the east as far as Timor. 
	
	
 The memory Russia's Mir space station which after 15 years fell to earth on 23 March 2001 is still fresh of. Fortunately shrapnel from the former space station, which measured 33 x 30 x 27 metres and weighed 137 tonnes, burned up as it re-entered the earth's atmosphere somewhere over the Pacific Ocean between Chile and Australia. Nevertheless, intact pieces of debris weighing up to 20 to 30 tonnes fell into the Pacific Ocean. 
	
	
 Prior to that, two Soviet satellites struck the earth. Cosmos 1402 in January 1978 fell over the Northern Hemisphere and Cosmos 954, which contained radioactive substances, crashed above the uninhabited tundra of Canada in September 1977. 
	
	
 Even more worrying is the possibility that a space station could be transformed into a military base and pose a threat to Indonesia's national sovereignty. At such close proximity, if bilateral relations with Australia were to take a turn for the worse, firing at Indonesia would be extremely easy. 
	
	
 On the other hand, Christmas Island is certainly an ideal location for rocket launches due to its proximity to the Equator and the geostationary orbit (GSO). [passage omitted on technical details of operation of GSO] 
	
	
 Notwithstanding the above, in reality only three of the 15 launch pad centres worldwide are located near the Equator - Kourou, San Marco and Sriharikota. But the famous US space centre, the Kennedy Space Centre at Cape Canaveral in Florida is located relatively far from the Equator. Therefore, plans to construct a space port should be moved from Christmas Island if Australia is really willing to listen to Indonesia's objections. 
	
	
 International law governing accountability if one nation's space debris falls on another is already in existence. The main convention is the UN Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, 28 March 1972, known as the 1972 Liability Convention. 
	
	
 The Convention basically sets out the responsibility of the launching state, either jointly or collectively, for the consequences of a launch failure from the time of launching through to the re-entry of a satellite to the Earth's atmosphere. The Convention also sets out various claims that can be made by states who have suffered damages as a result of other states' space projects. 
	
	
 As the nation most likely to suffer the impact of the Australian Space Port, Indonesia could rely on the simplest article in the Liability Convention, Section 14. This section allows states who have suffered damages to claim compensation through the International Claims Commission, which acts as the representative of the appellant state against the launching state (in this case Australia) or any other international organisation which can be classed as a launching state. 
	
	
 Of course, lodging a claim is not as simple as clapping one's hands. Indonesia at the very least needs to sign the UN Convention on Space as well as ratify several other treaties governing national activities in outer space. 
	
	
 These UN Conventions are the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies 1967 (Space Treaty 1967), the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects 1972 (Liability Convention 1972), and finally, the Convention on Registration of Objections launched into Outer Space 1974 (Registration Convention 1974). 
	
	
 So far, the Indonesian Government has only ratified the 1972 Liability Convention. This convention only applies to space objects that fall into Indonesian sovereign territory. Indonesia has only adopted one compensation principle, the Absolute Liability principle. This principle means that the burden of proof that the claimant state has suffered damages does not lie on the state submitting its damages claim. It is sufficient at law to demonstrate the fact of the damage caused as a result of the space object identified as belonging to the launching state or a state that has participated in the space object launching. 
	
	
 A National Space and Flight Agency working paper suggest a high degree of difficulty if Indonesia, as a state that has suffered damage, were to lodge a damages claim. In the case of objections to the Christmas Island space station, Indonesia would need to be able to show that damage that has occurred within its territorial area was caused by space objects launched from the Christmas Island station. This would of course require advanced technology and great cost to bring the matter to a claim submission. 
	
	
 But in conversation with Kompas on Sunday (17 Mar), one of Indonesia's few space law experts, Prof Dr Priyatna Abdurrasyid, expressed a different opinion. Indonesia would not need to produce further evidence to substantiate its claim, he said. It would suffice to submit a claim to the UN Claims Commission and state that the space debris in Indonesia had originated from the Australian space centre. 
	
	
 "If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities. If a deadlock in negotiations occurs, the parties can ask the UN Claims Commission as a neutral party to act as adjudicator. This is no different to arbitration hearings to resolve other cases," Priyatna said. 
	
	
 Unfortunately, historical precedent shows that claiming compensation is no easy matter. In claiming compensation from the Soviet Union over Cosmos 954, Canada was forced to navigate numerous procedural complications. This is a very important lesson for Indonesia. 
	
	
 Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station]. "In principle, my personal opinion is that we shouldn't go against the current. Rather we should the use the current to our mutual benefit," he said. 
	
	
 Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities. 
	
	
 "The Space Treaty 1967 obliges launching states to open as widely as possible the opportunity of cooperation with other states in all its activities. The treaty also pledges that the launching of space objects be purely for humanitarian purposes and not for military purposes," Priyatna said. 
	
	
 The basic principles of the Space Treaty 1967 oblige Australia as the launching state to open the possibility of humanitarian cooperation in the field of space endeavour. "Australia is not allowed to prevent other states who want to cooperate on its space centre. Indonesia can exploit this principle of the Space Treaty 1967. Rather than issuing a letter of objection to the Australian Government, wouldn't it be better to join them in our own national interest?" he asked. 
	
	
 The kangaroo country should implement risk management procedures before opening the space station on Christmas Island, and open as widely as possible the opportunity of cooperation with other states, and open complete access to cooperation to all states without exception. These principles are upheld in the Space Treaty 1967. 
	
	
 Australia should adhere to the Cardinal Principle of International Law, which states that all nations in the world must first respect and promote the humanitarian interests and progress of all humankind. But the problem is, who can ensure that these guidelines will indeed be adhered to? 
	
	
	


	
If keeping Arafat captive, under siege with the Palestinian people by the Israeli occupying forces, is an affront to Palestinian, Arab dignity, and International justice, it is also a powder keg that will at one point explode, devastating what remains of the Israeli security. It is that same security that Sharon, the assassin, uses as an excuse to instigate struggles and wars, and promote instability. He also pretends that he besieges Arafat because so far, he was unable to confront the Palestinian resistance. 
	
	
 It is only natural, with the guerilla operations successively occur, even inside the fortified settlements, that the world begins to wonder whether the accusations that Arafat was planning, and instructing attacks on Israeli targets despite his captivity, and the round-the-clock Israeli surveillance, were founded. The only interpretation for these accusations is that Arafat has formidable supernatural powers that enable him to defend the rights of his homeland and people against the unlimited capabilities of the Israeli occupying forces equipped with all the mighty US weapon technology. 
	
	
 The failure of the US-made Israeli war machine to settle this unequal battle became clear in the farcical-yet-provocative, statements made by the Israeli minister of defense now present in Washington. He has called for helping aggressive Israel to put a traitorous agent at the head of the Palestinian Authority, who could accept its terms to "assassinate' the rights of Palestinians. 
	
	
 It is certain the Ben Eliezer's hallucination is a mere expression of failure to persuade the world to accept the brutality of the occupying forces' practices. They even embody the bankrupt policy of Israeli criminal extremism and failure to gain legitimacy for its continuing occupation of the Palestinian territories. 
	
	
 Ben Eliezer's raving coincided with the arrival of his assassin boss Sharon to Washington to take part in exerting pressures on the US administration, and persuade it that removing Arafat could bring about the Palestinian surrender, and halt violence as he calls it. Sharon and Ben Eliezer never stopped to consider that no patriotic Palestinian could accept to serve as a substitute agent to Israel. They, along with the extremist gang in the Israeli government, do not want to understand that Arafat symbolizes the Palestinian struggle. With this attitude, Sharon's government showed its true hostility for a leader and chairman elected by his people. US peace Envoy Burns has expressed this after his meeting with president Mubarak. He has declared that US contacts will continue with Arafat considering that he is the elected Palestinian chairman. 
	
	
 I do wish that Burns's statements reflect a true position that signals a return of balance to the US position in dealing with the reality of Palestinian-Israeli struggle. 
	
	
 The time has come, gentlemen, for Sharon, the assassin, to realize that injustice cannot last long. The security of the Israelis depends on the Palestinians' regaining their rights. By besieging Arafat, Sharon has turned him into the "Mandela" of Arab struggle. This foretells that the Israeli occupation's claims will inevitably falls, no matter how long Sharon humiliates Arab dignity, relaying on the protection and support of Washington, which forgot all principles and role in defending justice, and international legitimacy. 
	
	
	


	
OVER 2,374 Bayelsa State people have received free medical services for various ailments, courtesy of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). 
	
	
 A breakdown of the statistics of patients that benefited from the exercise showed that 106 received general surgeries, 20 had eye cataract operations, 260 got eye glasses, while 1, 988 others had general consultations. 
	
	
 Apart from Odi whose people topped the number of beneficiaries (they got 1, 733 out of 2, 374 persons treated), other councils which participated in the free health care are Kolokuma/Opukoma, 284 persons, Kaiama, 213 persons, among others. 
	
	
 Co-ordinator of the project, Mr Sean Nortman, told reporters that 52 volunteers from various fields in medicine help to make the project a reality. 
	
	
 "With the combined goal of providing free quality health care in this rural areas through the dispensing of prescribed drugs as well as undertaking surgeries that came to the medical site daily, we made it to give the patients we come in contact with health advice and education, hopefully to prevent further problems in the future," Nortman said. 
	
	
 In an interview with journalists later, NDDC Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Mr. Timi Alaibe, said that the choice of Odi was a deliberate policy to give the people of the area who are still recovering from the trauma of the 1999 sad incident a sense of belonging. 
	
	
 Alaibe said that the commission was genuinely determined to change the tide of things in Bayelsa and other NDDC states who have been long neglected over years. 
	
	
 Meanwhile, reports of investigation into the recent oil spillage that occurred in Umudike Ohaji Egbema council in Imo State which left eight persons dead and many others injured is ready. 
	
	
 The member representing the Ohaji Egbema Oguta Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives Tony Okere disclosed this on Wednesday while fielding questions from reporters in his constituency office. 
	
	
 He added that the report would be presented before the house as soon as it resumes sitting. 
	
	
 He said the compositions of the committee included representatives from the Directorate of Petroleum Resource of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), government, Shell and the host community to ensure justice and fairness, law to protect only one party" he said. 
	
	
 On the activities of the NDDC, Okere accused the commission of siting projects in non oil producing areas, warning that it might derail from its set objectives.	


	
Today, in order to find a correct solution to the Middle East issue, it is important to frustrate Israel's territorial ambition and create conditions for Palestine to create an independent state of its own. Apart from this, we cannot talk about the settlement of the Middle East issue. 
	
	
 The great leader [suryong] Comrade Kim Il-song taught: 
	
	
 "Imperialism is the source of war and the disturber of peace." 
	
	
 It is an urgent matter for Israel to withdraw completely from the occupied land of Palestine. 
	
	
 Israel makes itself appear to be withdrawing its troops from some of the occupied Palestinian autonomous areas. On 17 November, Israeli troops pulled out of Tulkarm, a West Bank area of the Jordan River. 
	
	
 However, this is no reason to be optimistic about the situation. 
	
	
 Toward the end of October, Israel declared that it would withdraw from some of the Palestinian autonomous areas where the situation was "relatively calm" and pretended to be abiding by the decision. However, it stopped withdrawing its troops halfway through under the pretext of "unstable situation" and occupied them again. There is no way of knowing whether or not Israel will halt the withdrawal of its troops again under any pretext as it did before. 
	
	
 On 18 November, the following day Israel began withdrawing its troops from Tulkarm, Israeli troops deliberately gunned down two Palestinians in the Palestinian autonomous areas as if they were quarries. On 20 November, the Israeli army bulldozed dwelling houses in the Palestinian autonomous area and even committed such an atrocious act as wounding Palestinians without hesitation. As a result, the situation has become tense again. 
	
	
 It was in fact due to strong international pressure that Israel began withdrawing its troops from the Palestinian autonomous area. 
	
	
 In September last year Israeli Prime Minister Sharon, the then leader of the opposition party, visited a holy place in Kuds [Jerusalem], throwing Israel and Palestine into a fierce fight. Sharon's remarks and behavior that were insulting to the Palestinians infuriated Palestine. The desperate fight even took tolls of women and children. 
	
	
 The clash between Israel and Palestine briefly appeared to be abating in the wake of the large-scale attack incident [taesupkyok sakon] against the United States. However, it has become fierce again after Israeli minister of tourism was assassinated. Taking advantage of this, Israel occupied six cities located in the Palestinian autonomous areas by the use of force. 
	
	
 The United Nations and many countries around the world began paying attention again to the situation in the Middle East that is becoming more complicated. International pressure is on Israel again. 
	
	
 Caving in to the international pressure, the United States pretended to support the creation of an independent Palestinian state. The United States, which is currently waging a war in Afghanistan, tried to shore up support from Arab states and Islamic world through a crafty ruse. Seeing through the US scheme, Israel refused to continue the troop withdrawal from the Palestinian autonomous area. 
	
	
 Israel has never abandoned its aggressive ambitions. 
	
	
 Convinced that the United States can never abandon it completely, Israel is dragging its feet on the withdrawal of troops citing a variety of excuses. 
	
	
 Israel is adamantly against the creation of a completely independent Palestinian state. Israel's scheme is to make Palestine a vassal state and bring it under its control. This is why Israel agreed to discuss the issue of granting independence to Palestine on conditions that Palestine claim only a small piece of territory and waive its right to raise [organize] a regular army. 
	
	
 As such, Israel's territorial ambition is persistent and clever. 
	
	
 The US administration is about to call on Israel to support the creation of a Palestinian state with East Kuds as its capital. 
	
	
 Commenting on this, many Arab states and international opinion emphatically said that it is nothing more than a political stratagem to win support for its war in Afghanistan and to further expand the sphere of its domination in the Middle East. 
	
	
 The United States, which has been in the van of invading other countries, is about to put pressure on Israel, not because it is now more sympathetic to Palestine or finds Palestine more tolerable than before, but because of its own national interests. 
	
	
 It is quite obvious that Israel will employ a crafty trick in the future to realize its burning territorial ambition. It is also obvious that the aggressive US policy toward the Middle East will remain unchanged. 
	
	
 The prospect for the settlement of the Middle East issue is still bleak due to those who stand in the way of the settlement. 
	
	
	


	
A 26 November 2001 article in Zhongguo Renkou Bao reported that in April 2001, the State Family Planning Commission initiated its transprovincial floating population investigation by surveying the marriage, birth, and birth control situations of 27,879 migrant women between the ages of 15 and 49. 
	
	
 Of the women surveyed, 87.2 percent (24,310) were married, higher than the national average of 82.3 percent (according to the 1997 National Population and Reproductive Health Survey). The average number of 15- to 19-year-old migrant women who are married with children is higher than the national average. The average for migrant women in the other age groups is lower than the national average. 
	
	
 Only about 30 percent of the migrant women who are married with two or more children have obtained official migrant population marriage documentation as required by the Procedures For Managing Floating Population Family Planning. This is less than the registration rate of migrant women with no or one child. 
	
	
 The percentage of married migrant women using contraceptives is 90.6 percent, higher than the national average of 83.4 percent. Moreover, those with children mostly use long-term contraceptive methods. The rate of using long-term contraceptive methods is higher among women with one son than women with one daughter. Those with two children mostly undergo sterilization. However, the use of sterilization among "households with two daughters" is significantly less than among households with at least one son. 
	
	
 This document is based exclusively on the content and behavior of selected foreign public media. It is issued without coordination with other U.S. Government components.	


	
JOHANNESBURG March 16 Sapa MBEKI TO MEET WITH MUGABE AND TSVANGIRAI IN HARARE ON MONDAY 
	
	
 (CORRECTS TITLE OF AUSTRALIAN PM, UPDATES WITH ZUMA ATTENDING INAUGURATION) President Thabo Mbeki would fly to Harare on Monday to meet Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe and later with opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, presidential spokesman Bheki Khumalo told Sapa on Saturday. 
	
	
 Khumalo said Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo would also attend the talks, which would culminate on Tuesday when the two met Australian Prime Minister John Howard in London. Mugabe was to be inaugurated again as Zimbabwean president on Sunday following his controversial re-election last weekend. He was first elected Prime Minister in 1980 and has effectively ruled the country ever since. 
	
	
 Mbeki, Obasanjo and Howard have been mandated by the recent Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Australia to decide what action should be taken on the situation in Zimbabwe. Their decision would be based on the Commonwealth observer team's report on the legitimacy of the election as well as those prepared by the Southern African Development Community, the Organisation of African Unity and the SA Observer Mission. The Commonwealth team earlier this week said that "the conditions in Zimbabwe did not adequately allow the free and fair expression of will by the electorate". 
	
	
 The SADC on Saturday endorsed the vote, despite its Parliamentary Forum, which judging that the March 9-11 election "did not conform with the norms and standards of the SADC Parliamentary Forum," signed on to by Zimbabwe. The team from the organisation's Council of Ministers, on the other hand, considered the vote a "true reflection" of the people's will. 
	
	
 The Organisation of African Unity (OAU) also backed Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's re-election, with its observer team describing the poll as "transparent, credible, free and fair". South Africa's observer mission also endorsed the vote, saying in an interim report that "(o)verall ... the authorities charged with conducting the elections discharged their work satisfactorily." The team acknowledged that the election campaign had been characterised by "polarisation, tension and incidents of violence and intimidation." In terms of the Commonwealth's mandate, action against Zimbabwe could range from collective disapproval to suspension. 
	
	
 Mbeki was, however, already on the record as saying that the Commonwealth also had other issues to consider. CHOGM had also decided to look at ways of helping Zimbabwe with land reform and food aid. State-sanctioned land invasions, several times declared illegal by Zimbabwe's courts, as well as a drought have disrupted Zimbabwe's food production and famine is already looming in much of the country. 
	
	
 Meanwhile, Foreign Affairs spokesman Ronnie Mamoepa said Mbeki's deputy, Jacob Zuma would represent the country at the controversially re-elected President Robert Mugabe's latest inauguration, scheduled for Sunday in Harare. No reason was provided why Mbeki could not attend. Reports from Lagos indicated that Obasanjo would also not attend. 
	
	
 Several other heads of state had by Saturday indicated they would attend, including Tanzania's Benjamin Nkapa and Malawi's Bakili Muluzi, currently also the SADC's president. Mamoepa said the key points on the agenda now was Zimbabwe's economic recovery and social stability "within the context of national unity." 
	
	
 Source : Sapa /le/pk Date : 16 Mar 2002 17:36	


	
Foreign Minister Celso Lafer transmitted a warning to United States Secretary of State Colin Powell, with whom he spent 30 minutes yesterday, from the Brazilian Government: without help from the US, Argentina could enter a state of social rebellion and open a new front of geopolitical instability in South America. Powell's reaction, according to a Planalto source, was one of "interest and attention". No more than that. The Brazilian Government's perception of Argentina's future is pessimistic. "Their economic agenda alone is overwhelming," the source commented. It requires the creation of a Central Bank capable of administering a floating exchange rate system and a regime of inflation goals; the establishment of a safety network for the debilitated financial system; the restructuring of the tax policy, and the elaboration of a law that ensures fiscal discipline. Without US help, via the IMF, the country will not be able to attain the most basic economic, social and political stability, and could contaminate the subcontinent, Lafer warned. 
	
	
 [passage omitted] 
	
	
 "La plata" or social rebellion 
	
	
 Foreign Minister Celso Lafer carried a dramatic warning from President Fernando Henrique Cardoso to the US Government. In his conversation with Secretary of State Colin Powell, the Brazilian Foreign Minister stated clearly that to leave Argentina to its own fate, as seems to be the George Bush administration's choice, is to pave the way for social rebellion there, which will contaminate other countries on the continent and create another area of political instability on the planet. 
	
	
 The Argentina theme was also covered in Lafer's talks yesterday with Commerce Secretary Don Evans and with US Trade Representative Robert Zoellick. According to a Planalto Palace source, the reaction from Powell as well as from Evans and Zoellick was of "interest and attention". Nothing more. 
	
	
 Translating roughly, what Minister Lafer tried to tell the Americans is that the financial cost of an international rescue of Argentina, now, led by the IMF and other multilateral credit agencies, will be lower than the cost of fighting, later on, chaos in its social, political, and - why not? - military forms on the continent. 
	
	
 South America is already living with complex problems in Venezuela and, above all, in Colombia, where President Andres Pastrana is unable to combat the guerrilla activities of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia [FARC] and failed in the recent attempt to negotiate an agreement with its militants. For Brazilian diplomacy, Pastrana lost time and credibility on a failed bet: the negotiations with FARC, letting them control territory the size of Switzerland in the heart of the continent. 
	
	
 To add a country like Argentina to this list of problems is to allow the growth of a dangerous focus of social dissatisfaction, which is tending to express itself outside of any institutional control. Argentine society is divorcing itself from political parties and national institutions, and it is in such an environment that radical responses germinate, such as authoritarian regimes and the formation of guerrilla groups. 
	
	
 The ill effects of the Argentine crisis can contaminate the nearest countries first, like Paraguay, Uruguay and Bolivia. And there is no guarantee that a political destabilization of the region would bypass even Chile, where memories of the military dictatorship are still very strong. One cannot ignore the fact that, only 20 years ago, all these countries - including Brazil and Peru - were ruled by generals. 
	
	
 There is an entire. political and diplomatic argument in the conversations with representatives of the Bush government that transcends the economic-financial discussions, to which the subject was restricted, and which encompasses the very survival of democracy in South America. It is a new approach, which tries to sensitize US authorities through the use of geopolitical arguments. Not to take into account the impact of destabilization in South America in a world already complicated by the Middle East, India versus Pakistan, Afghanistan, and badly-resolved problems in Eastern Europe, "is not to have a strategic vision," according to the assessment that is being made in Planalto Palace and which was clearly emphasized during Lafer's meetings with Powell, Zoellick and Evans. 
	
	
 The Brazilian Government's perception of Argentina's future is pessimistic. There is a stress factor in the content and volume of the needs of that country, which on its own will not be able to take the steps absolutely necessary for its reconstruction. This is the understanding of sources very close to President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, and it is also guiding the analyses of the economic department. 
	
	
 What is underway in the neighboring country, according to information gathered by the Brazilian Government, is the establishment of a Central Bank - which 10 years ago abdicated from the traditional functions of currency and credit manager - that is capable of working with a floating exchange rate system and a regime of inflation goals, like Brazil's Central Bank; a safety network for the financial system whose health is already extremely undermined; the restructuring of the tax policy so that the tax collection machine can create conditions for the government to draw up a budget without so many uncertainties; and a fiscal responsibility law that imposes some discipline on the relationship between central government and the provinces. 
	
	
 "This is the minimum that has to be done. Their economic agenda alone is overwhelming," comments one high-ranking member of the Brazilian Government. Alone, and under the command of a president who managed to create a strong political coalition explained only by his own survival instinct, Argentines will be unable to attain the most basic economic, social and political stability. How does this affect Brazil? To answer a question of this nature, the Brazilian Foreign Minister would surely resort to Ortega y Gasset: "I am I and my circumstances. If I do not save them, I do not save myself." 
	
	
 [passage omitted] 
	
	
	


	
Tomorrow the government will announce a comprehensive economic and social plan based on the complete elimination of the dollar as a monetary standard through the conversion of deposits and loans into pesos. 
	
	
 For those owing less than $100,000, the conversion will be done at the rate of one to one. For those who owe between $100,000 and $300,000, the conversion rate will be 1.2 to 1, with the government making up the difference between this rate and that of the official dollar. It will help out the banks, as El Cronista reported, by giving them a bond or certificate against future revenues from the tax on crude oil exports (5 billion) and with part of the assistance that the IMF will reportedly provide (4 billion). Debts of more than $300,000 will continue to be converted at 1.4 to 1. 
	
	
 Barring last minute changes, no announcement is expected about allowing the peso to float freely, as the IMF would like, or about changes in the timetable for easing bank withdrawal restrictions. Under these restrictions, which were established by Domingo Cavallo and tightened by his successor, Jorge Remes Lenicov, the country's savers are barred from accessing more than 65 billion (pesos and mainly dollars) that they have on deposit. 
	
	
 This constraint, combined with the difficulties of even withdrawing money for daily use from salary direct-deposit accounts, has heightened social unrest, as people have staged marches, banging on pots and pans, and other demonstrations to protest the prevailing economic situation. 
	
	
 Some analysts feel that the fledgling Duhalde administration is making a mistake by ending convertibility without first resolving the problems that will arise from this decision, which was a foregone conclusion here in Argentina and the rest of the world. What is more, the IMF tried to convince Cavallo to abandon the one-to-one peg in an orderly fashion. 
	
	
 The fact that the former minister and President Fernando de la Rua, who later stepped down, were opposed to such a move drove the IMF even further away from lending any support. Its last show of support was the $8 billion in aid to support the "zero deficit" tactic. 
	
	
 Such budgetary discipline turned out to be impossible, thus shattering the rigid convertibility system and putting entire sectors of the economy out of commission. Lack of confidence led to massive withdrawals of savings into safer places. 
	
	
 The outflows forced some banks to ask the government to set limits. Cavallo could think of nothing better than the curbs on withdrawals. According to former Minister Roque Fernandez, it was "the worst mistake in the history of the Argentine economy," while influential businessman Arnaldo Musich (FIEL [Latin American Economic Research Foundation]-Techint) considered it an "inexcusable" mistake. 
	
	
 Burdensome Legacy 
	
	
 The last of the provisional governments that took over from the abbreviated De la Rua administration decided quickly to end the currency board system. But not until tomorrow, one month after taking office, will it announce a comprehensive plan to overcome the worst crisis in the country's history. 
	
	
 Duhalde will confirm that $2 billion will be made available immediately to mitigate the social disaster. This money was approved by the World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank. 
	
	
 Accompanied by Remes, he will talk tomorrow about what the assistance will be used for: to fulfill the promise to create a million jobs, to provide basic health care, and to undertake small infrastructure projects. The president will also mention imminent political reform, which he will call on Congress to enact. 
	
	
 The rest of his remarks will be solely about the economy, about which millions of Argentines have been obsessed for some years now. Mortgage loans, the debts of small and mid-sized companies, and automotive loans under $100,000 will be paid back in the identical amount of pesos. The same will go for secured loans under $300,000 and personal loans of up to $10,000. 
	
	
 Debts over these amounts will have to be repaid at 1.4 to 1, although the government will defray 20 cents on the dollar so that debtors will actually pay 1.2 pesos. 
	
	
 The banking restrictions will, for the time being, remain unchanged, but the tacit assumption is that the timetable for easing them will be speeded up "as soon as conditions permit." It has been confirmed that there will be "coupons" for savers who want to buy things, with their frozen funds as collateral. 
	
	
 The president will also break down the budget for the press and promise to issue currency in a controlled manner (not to exceed 3.5 billion pesos) and to undertake the difficult task of reversing the sudden decline in wealth (4.9 percent) without pushing inflation beyond 15 percent. 
	
	
 The dollar will be allowed to float as soon as possible, as the government has promised the IMF. Everything depends on the anticipated aid of between $15 billion and $20 billion, which is what has been requested of Washington. 
	
	
 Adjustment Index Will Be New Variable 
	
	
 One of the points on which the Duhalde administration's economic plan will be based is a monetary benchmark that will govern the issuance of pesos and the refunding of deposits in dollars that have been frozen in accounts. 
	
	
 To this end, Jorge Remes Lenicov's economic team has developed an index or formula including such parameters as projected annual inflation rates, the government's budget, the exchange rate of the dollar, and issuance of money by the Central Bank. 
	
	
 This system, which will serve as a financial tool for redrafting most of the contracts involving economic activity in the new, post-convertibility era, is similar to the "Celic" index that Brazil uses or the "Unidad de Fomento" that Chile used until August 2001. 
	
	
 The monetary benchmark that Brazil employs and that Chile used to is the most common one in today's world and is based on an inflation target. On the basis of this target a rule is developed to determine the interest rate needed to hit the target for price rises. The amount of money issued thus winds up being a function of these variables, not a target in itself, so that monetary policy can be used as a tool for promoting economic recovery. 
	
	
 Until August of last year Chile had an incremental adjustment mechanism that included an exchange rate band with a ceiling and floor. Monetary adjustments were based on what was called the "unidad de fomento," an indexing system that included various price indices and adjusted contracts in accordance with actual changes. 
	
	
 Brazil started using an inflation target once its 1999 devaluation stabilized the real and achieved low inflation. 
	
	
 The government explained that it theoretically saw tools like the "unidad de fomento" as a way of adjusting the deposits of savers that will remain subject to restrictions until at least next year. The index will persumably not be applied for another two or three months, and it has not been ruled out that it may include loans already converted into pesos. 
	
	
 Renes is working alongside a group of technicians from the IMF, World Bank, US Treasury Department, and Central Bank of Brazil, whose services were also used during the crises in Mexico and Indonesia. 
	
	
 [Buenos Aires Ambito Financiero in Spanish on 1 February adds the following: "The following are the main measures that will be announced tomorrow: 
	
	
 "'Dirty' float for the dollar: The decision has been made to abolish the official exchange rate (1.4 pesos to the dollar) and to move towards a single, floating rate. The Central Bank will intervene in the market, but only to prevent sudden swings. Intermediate solutions have been completely ruled out, such as periodic adjustments of the exchange rate (a crawling peg) or a band, which would oblige the Central Bank to intervene by selling dollars to defend a given value of the peso. The government wanted to wait until it had sealed an accord with the IMF before going to a float. But since the negotiations will take several weeks, as Remes will not be flying to Washington until 14 February, the idea is to move ahead before receiving international aid. Another possibility is to have released at least the $2.6 billion that has been pending disbursement since December in order to bolster reserves before the peso is allowed to float. 
	
	
 "Total release of salary direct-deposit accounts: All employees will soon be able to access their entire salary by making cash withdrawals from savings accounts. This will completely eliminate the ceiling of 1,500 pesos per month that had been set in the January version of the banking restrictions. This measure will benefit only the 4 percent of workers who earn more than that amount, which until now was subject to the restrictions. The danger, which the economic team is aware of, is that any additional money withdrawn will go straight into purchases of dollars since this could represent the percentage of income that an individual is able to save. The measure is designed to send a signal so that people gradually regain confidence. Raising the withdrawal ceiling in the case of regular savings accounts to 1,500 pesos a month was under consideration yesterday, but for now the limit of 1,200 a month will continue to apply, with the possibility of gradual increases in the near future. 
	
	
 "Deposits to be converted into pesos at 1.4 to 1: Time deposits in dollars will be converted into pesos at the official rate. Once they have been converted, the refund timetable for dollar deposits will initially be maintained. In other words, refunds will not begin until January 2003. If an agreement is reached with the IMF and economic conditions improve, the timetable will likely be moved forward so that people can get cash. The possibility of keeping a portion of a time deposit in dollars, which President Duhalde has requested, has not been altogether ruled out, but there are legal problems with implementing it. In the case of time deposits in pesos, the refund timetable is being maintained; it provides for withdrawals in cash as of March. 
	
	
 "Installment checks for time deposits: The money subject to a refund timetable may be used for purchases, but with restrictions. It cannot be credited to demand deposit accounts. Therefore, it can be used only to purchase items such as cars and apartments. The 12, 18, or 24 installments into which time deposits will be divided, depending on their amount, may be endorsed. Transfer of the time deposit will be authorized only in the case of a purchase. But the account holder will not be able to move it from one bank to another. The big drawback to this system is that hardly anyone will be willing to sell real estate for peso-denominated installment checks that can be cashed sometime in the future. They can be used, though, for smaller transactions or to pay for part of a purchase. 
	
	
 "Issuance of bonds indexed according to the value of the dollar: The Central Bank will soon start issuing bonds in pesos to offer the public another alternative to purchasing dollars. The idea is to issue very short-term bills (30 days, for now) that will be indexed to any ongoing depreciation. An arrangement with an attractive implicit interest rate could also be devised. It will not be easy, of course, to drum up demand with the country in full-fledged default. 
	
	
 "No withholding on oil exports: In conclusion, the government has decided to reverse itself on the 20 percent tax that it was planning to levy on these exports. 'We would not have raised all that much money and would have been sending a very bad signal overseas by discriminating between sectors,' acknowledged a senior source in the Economy Ministry. In any event, the oil industry may be asked for an advance on taxes due, as had been under consideration a couple of weeks ago. If any withholding arrangement is implemented, it will apply to all exports, not just some. 
	
	
 "Bonds in dollars to compensate banks: The banks will receive long-term government bonds in dollars as compensation for the losses that will arise from conversion into pesos on their balance sheets. Estimates are that under the arrangement that has been devised the red ink will total more than 12 billion pesos or some $6 billion. The banks have also agreed with this option. They wold rather hold a financial claim on the government than place the entire burden on their debtors, who would be forced to declare bankruptcy if they got no relief. 
	
	
 "Phase 1 of the swap remains in dollars: Banks, Pension and Retirement Fund Management Companies, and insurance companies exerted strong pressure to prevent all accounts from being converted into pesos at 1.4 to 1. They managed to keep their bonds in foreign currency and are supposed to start collecting interest this April. It is likely, however, that before that the government will move ahead with a comprehensive debt rescheduling, including international and local investors who were involved in the first phase of the swap."] 
	
	
	


	
Hamburg -- Some 200 German Border Guard officers working in cooperation with the Hamburg prosecutors' office on Wednesday cracked a ring of Afghan smugglers who have been operating throughout Europe. 
	
	
 Officials say that the smuggling ring had been illegally bringing fellow nationals into Germany via Austria since at least October 2001. Many of the refugees then travelled by rail from Hamburg to Britain via Brussels. Others took trains, vans and cars onto ferries destined for Scandinavia. The Afghans paid gang members up to 9,000 euros ($7,900) to make the trip. 
	
	
 The border guard officers searched a total of 16 apartments, stores and offices downtown and in Hamburg's Altona, Billstedt, Schnelsen, and Harburg districts, detaining 14 suspects. An arrest warrant for the suspected leader of the gang, an Afghan, was also served. Police seized 33,9000 euros -- believed to be earnings from smuggling operations -- in the apartment of the 35-year-old suspected ringleader. 
	
	
 Two men who were working with him, an Afghan and a Pakistani, were arrested as well. Eleven others were taken into custody, seven of whom were also members of the smuggling ring. The remaining four turned out to be Afghan refugees. A further four suspects were arrested in a similar operation in Frankfurt. 
	
	
 Police interrogators were told the refugees had been "parked" and were working illegally in northern Germany until they could be moved to other locations. 
	
	
 Sites in the towns of Ratzeburg and Uelzen were also searched in connection with the raid, said Wieland Mozdzynski, director of the Hamburg office of the border guard. 
	
	
 Mr. Mozdzynski said that during the operation, which stretched as far as the state of Bavaria and Austria, police had uncovered an "international network of groups, each with specific tasks." He added that the groups worked independently, but exploited existing contacts regularly. According to a police spokesman, more than 500 officers took part in the joint operation. 
	
	
 Another officer said the loose structure of the smuggling ring made the investigation more difficult. He said that the bust was nevertheless a significant and successful strike against gangs and businesses engaged in human smuggling.	


	
Kazakhstan's main seaport does brisk business 
	
	
 Text of report by Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency 
	
	
 Aktau, 22 January. The Aktau Sea Trading Port republican state enterprise (RSE) on the Caspian Sea (situated in Mangistau Region of western Kazakhstan) handled over 116,000 tonnes of cargo between 14 and 21 January [2002]. As Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency learnt at the RSE, a total of 79,000 tonnes of oil and oil products and 37,044 tonnes of dry cargo were transshipped through the port during the quoted period. On the whole, according to the RSE, 343,735 tonnes of cargo were handled through Aktau seaport between 1 and 21 January. A total of 261,841 tonnes of oil and oil products and 81,894 tonnes of dry cargo have been transshipped through the port since the start of January. Aktau seaport is Kazakhstan's only international seaport with annual transshipment capacity of 1.5m tonnes of dry cargo and 8m tonnes of oil and oil products.	


	

	
	
 Text of report by Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency 
	
	
 Baykonur, 15 March: Preparations on the Progress M-1 N257 transport spacecraft, which is scheduled to be launched to the International Space Station (ISS) on 21 March, are nearing completion at the Baykonur space vehicle launching site [in Kazakhstan]. Specialists at the space vehicle launching site told an Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency correspondent that Progress had been filled with rocket fuel components and compressed gases and it had been taken to an installing and testing facility of the Energiya [Energy] Rocket Space Corporation for the final operations to be carried out. The general assembly of the Soyuz-U booster-rocket (BR), which is to boost Progress M-1, is scheduled for 18 March. After the BR has been assembled, the state commission will take a decision to take the rocket to the launching site. A total of six space launches from Baykonur, including four cargo launches, scheduled within the ISS programme this year.	


	
New York -- The warlike tone of the State of the Union speech delivered by George Bush Tuesday evening has prompted responses as critical abroad as they are enthusiastic in the United States. Be that as it may, the aim pursued by the White House seems to have been achieved. This is to re-mobilize the country behind the war on terrorism and to prevent Americans, by returning to a more normal life, from concerning themselves chiefly with the daily repercussions of the Enron affair and rising unemployment. 
	
	
 In his fellow countrymen's eyes, the test constituted by 11 September has revealed George Bush's talents as a war leader. He is clearly more comfortable in this role than he is in he management of routine matters. His force of conviction when he preaches the struggle of good against evil largely explains his exceptional popularity ratings (83 percent of favorable opinions, according to the latest ABC and Washington Post surveys.) So on Tuesday evening George Bush tried to reproduce the tone of his 20 September speech in order to galvanize the country. "The United States will not allow the world's most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the most destructive weapons. Whatever the cost of our country's defense, we will pay it. The evil is real, and it must be combated... even in the midst of tragedy, specially in the midst of tragedy, God is there..." 
	
	
 The unanimous opinion of the media is that he was successful in this. His speech was "brilliant, full of strength and eloquence. The pursuit of the war on terrorism has given Americans a new illustration of his character and his confidence in the country's leadership," the New York Times said. According to the Washington Post , "the President's intensity was equal to the need to pursue the war." Television commentaries were even more full of praise. "Solid and often eloquent remarks," CBS' Ran Rather said. CNN's Bill Bennett called it "a speech of moral strength." According to Fox's Juan Williams, "the words came straight from the heart." 
	
	
 The condemnation of the "axis of evil" comprising Iran, Iraq, and North Korea was applauded by Republican and Democrat hawks, and barely challenged by a few foreign relations experts. George Bush has succeeded not only in returning the war to the front pages of the newspapers, ousting the Enron affair and the budget deficit, but also in forcing the Democratic opposition to unite against the enemy. Dick Gephardt, the Democratic leader in the House of Representatives, and Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader in the Senate, have attempted the impossible feat of "setting partisan attitudes aside and supporting our President 100 percent in the war on terrorism," while at the same time trying to criticize economic and social policy. 
	
	
 As for responses abroad, in order to make them somewhat less sharp, the administration has introduced some qualifications. This, among other things, by specifying that no military operations are planned against any of the three countries cited. White House spokesman Ari Fleischer even added that the expression "axis of evil" was not used in an allusion to the notorious Rome-Berlin-Tokyo axis. 
	
	
 However, George Bush is not about to change his rhetoric. "In the antiterrorist struggle, as far as I am concerned there is black and white, and no shades of gray," he said Thursday 31 January during an election campaign visit to Atlanta, Georgia, and to Daytona beach, Florida. 
	
	
 The President said he was confident about the US allies' support against countries trying to acquire mass destruction weapons. "The rest of the world needs to be with us, because such weapons can be targeted on them as well as on us." He again urged these countries to "clean their own homes." "If you are one of the countries that develops mass destruction weapons, and you are willing to ally with a terrorist group, or you currently support terrorism, or if you do not sincerely share the values precious to us, then you too will be under surveillance," he said. 
	
	
	


	
Cuito, 25 Jan (Angop)- A road convoy which came in from Benguela Province carrying 1,500 metric tons of assorted goods arrived in the city of Cuito, the capital of Bie Province, on Tuesday [22 Jan]. The aim of this aid is to reduce the shortages faced by local population. 
	
	
 According to convoy chief Eusebio da Silva Ferreira, the convoy included 35 trucks, and it ferried 720 metric tons of corn, 623 metric tons of peas, and 157 metric tons of beans. He added that the above mentioned products will help offset the difficult social conditions of more than 460,000 people in need in the province. 
	
	
 These aid goods have arrived at a time when the World Food Program, WFP is cutting down on air transportation of aid to Bie Province from 3,500 metric tons to 2,000 metric tons. This is because of the high costs involved, and the poor conditions of the local landing strip. Because of these problems, the WFP has not been able to provide all the necessary assistance to people in need, who are estimated to total more than 460,000. 
	
	
	


	
These days, when everything seems to be collapsing in the Middle East, both the Palestinians' chances of finally having a state in which their people would be sovereign, and the Israelis' chances of integrating themselves into a region where -- need we be reminded? -- the Arabs are in the overwhelming majority, we believe it our duty to voice a few basic truths. 
	
	
 One of us is a Palestinian patriot (and not a nationalist). The other has no other homeland than France, which does not, however, lead him to deny his heritage from ancient Israel (which contains, like all heritages, the best and the worst) nor to be indifferent to the destiny of those millions of Jews who have something in common with him. 
	
	
 We are both historians. 
	
	
 However, we will not look back at the entire century that has just passed. There was a quarrel concerning Zionism. Those involved in it had no shortage of arguments, whether Arab, Jewish, or simply clear-headed. Zionism established itself in a sensitive region of the world at a time when nothing seemed more "normal" than to settle in someone else's territory. 
	
	
 The United States, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand were all created at the conclusion of a colonial process. 
	
	
 No one today challenges their existence despite the crises arising from this process and which were cited by an Aboriginal athlete at the Olympic Games in Sydney. 
	
	
 Likewise, the more recent creation of Israel was accompanied, under the indifferent gaze of the Western and Soviet world, by the forced exodus of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians. Today, these refugees and their descendants do not call into question the existence of the state of Israel as long as the injustice suffered is recognized and the implementation of their rights is negotiated fairly. 
	
	
 Let us content ourselves with reiterating the evidence: Since June 1967, the West Bank and Gaza have been occupied and dominated territories, crushed politically, socially, economically. Despite this, the Palestinian resistance has formally recognized the existence of Israel and begun a peace process in Oslo, while the state of Israel has recognized the Palestinians represented by the PLO and its leader Yasser Arafat. 
	
	
 This process has not achieved its goal. 
	
	
 On the Palestinian side, feeding on the growing frustration of the occupied population, a wing has broken off, conducting a policy of terror and death that horrifies us. 
	
	
 On the Israeli side, despite the process, settlement has increased considerably, eating away at the supposedly autonomous Palestinian territories crisscrossed by "bypass roads." 
	
	
 Today, two forms of terrorism fuel each other. Palestinian terrorism, which existed on a very small scale in the time of Yitzhak Rabin, has taken on a dramatic dimension. But the Israeli response, with its "extra-judicial liquidations," is even more dramatic in a certain sense. It now resembles the destruction of the very people, so structured and organized is it. 
	
	
 Like any form of state terrorism, it is above all contradictory. Yesterday, Yasser Arafat was being asked to police the area he was supposed to be in charge of, while destroying the instruments of his power. Today, he is being completely isolated and the desire to drive him away is scarcely disguised. 
	
	
 Ariel Sharon's immediate exploitation of the 11 September massacres is an unmistakable sign. Sharon compared Arafat to Bin Ladin and Mullah Omar put together. Whom does he think he resembles, if not the perpetrator of the Sabra and Shatila massacres? 
	
	
 How to escape from this situation? From the current perspective, three solutions seem "logical." 
	
	
 The first is the expulsion of the Palestinians from what is known as Eretz Israel, from all of Mandatory Palestine. A recently assassinated minister favored this solution. Can we seriously imagine the crimes that would have to be committed to achieve this result? Can anyone believe that the Arab world could approve of it? What would then remain of the universal character of the prophets of Israel -- that of the second Isaiah, for example -- and of Israeli citizens' hope of one day living in peace in this region? 
	
	
 The other solution is the opposite of the first one: the departure of the Israelis to more hospitable climes, in the United States or Europe. It is absolutely impossible for the time being. But in the future? What would remain of the ideals of those who saw themselves as their liberators of their people and as builders? Asking this question at least serves as a reminder that, although many have already left, thereby reinventing the Diaspora, the Israelis want to stay and do not intend to end up like French Algeria. 
	
	
 The third solution consists of coexistence, whether it takes the form of two separate states or a federation or a confederation. 
	
	
 Two basic principles could still, perhaps, make it possible. 
	
	
 The first is that of not only civic, but also social and economic, equality. This principle applies primarily to the attitudes that must prevail during any future negotiations. It also applies for Palestinian citizens of Israel who, 53 years after the creation of the state, are still far from equal. It furthermore holds for the Israelis who decide to remain in Palestinian territory and who must no longer be encysted there. 
	
	
 The second is that of reciprocity. Any renunciation of sovereignty by either party must be compensated by the other. This applies to all the problems under discussion, including, of course, the issue of Jerusalem and of the refugees. 
	
	
 It must be acknowledged that the government of Ariel Sharon has so far taken the opposite tack and that, while he has grudgingly recognized the Palestinians' right to a state, it has been under conditions such that this state, reduced to a series of Bantustans, has no chance of living and developing peacefully. Extremists on both sides have clearly understood this and have derived nothing but encouragement from it. 
	
	
 The Israeli ambassador in France, Elie Barnavi, recently made two contradictory statements: That all those who, like Nurit Peled, believe that the Sharon government is a "government of death" could easily fit into a telephone booth... and that by their existence they constitute Israel's very honor. 
	
	
 We still want to hope that the "rest of Israel," as the prophets called it, is the "mustard seed" another prophet referred to. 
	
	
 We do hope so, against all hope. 
	
	
	


	
December 5, was a Wednesday like any other for the 24 executive directors of the International Monetary Fund [IMF]. Three meetings - on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays - under the chairmanship of the institution's director general, Germany's Horst Kohler, usually punctuate their weekly schedule. During these meetings, they review various subjects and in particular the achievements of "under program" countries. That particular morning, it was Argentina's turn. It is the victim of an explosive situation at the economic, political and social levels. And yet, the problem was disposed of in two hours. Since the economic targets the government had promised, particularly the one on a zero budget deficit, were not reached, the board felt it was unable to "recommend" releasing a new $1.264 billion tranche that had been scheduled for December as part of last year's $22 billion program for Argentina. 
	
	
 Shortly thereafter, the institution's spokesman, Thomas Dawson, declared "the [Argentine] authorities have to reach the program goals they set for themselves" before they can get any more money. Moreover, he found the measures taken by the government to control the [movement] of foreign exchange and limit the flight of capital were "regrettable", even though these measures were made more flexible later on. According to an eyewitness, this cut and dry, accounting-like decision taken by civil servants, who thus have the power of "life or death" over a country, was not the subject of any debate. It was taken following the presentation of a report by Chile's Thomas Reichmann, the chief of mission who had been sent to Buenos Aires. The figures spoke for themselves. At most, a few differences in sensitivity emerged over whether or not the issue should remain closed from one to two months or if the discussions with Argentina should continue. The latter was adopted in the end. This was the only concession made to a government that has been struggling to restructure its domestic public debt to avoid having the country simply default on its debt. 
	
	
 Unconditional Support 
	
	
 In essence, it seems that they all agreed on one thing: meeting a commitment is inviolable. This position is surprising all the same because the history of the IMF is lined with derogations. We have stopped counting the number of times financial bailout plans have been set up to help this or that government in difficulty. We also stopped counting the unconditional support the institution has given some heads of state, who are neither especially virtuous nor especially democratic, because it was in the political, commercial and economic interest of the United States to do so. 
	
	
 This was the case in particular for Russia, Brazil and now Pakistan. In the case of Russia, it was a matter of helping the former soviet giant consolidate its emerging democracy. For Brazil, the Fund intervened in October 1998, between two rounds in the presidential election, to support Fernando Henrique Cardoso's reelection because his macroeconomic options fell in line with the Fund's requirements, contrary to his leftist adversary, Luis Inacio "Lula" da Silva. In the case of Pakistan, it is this country's geostrategic position in the current crisis that serves to justify the avalanche of loans and trade facilities that are being granted to Islamabad. 
	
	
 Argentina has none of these worthy arguments. Yet, over the past ten years, it has done everything it can to be considered one of the IMF's good pupils. The government adopted a fixed parity between the dollar and the peso in 1991 in order to stop unrestricted inflation. Buenos Aires privatized, on Washington's recommendation, all of its public companies. The government, without assets to sell and without the possibility of falling back on the devaluation of its currency, is now condemned to keep on asking for foreign capital to maintain its balance of payments in equilibrium. Hence, a foreign debt of $130 billion and the urgent need for an inflow of capital from the IMF to repay $2 billion in debt that is coming due on 19 December. In the event of non-payment, the country will find itself an outcast of the international financial community. 
	
	
 The IMF administrators' bookkeeping-based decision marks a toughening of its policy, which America's republicans, who are especially critical of the Fund's past largesse, have called for over the past years. The first illustration of a change in the position of the United States (the Fund's leading shareholder) toward countries that may squander the American taxpayer's money was the arrival in September of Ann Krueger, an ultraliberal American, as number two at the IMF. Moreover, the "Argentine case" falls at a bad time. President Bush now needs parliamentary votes to get more powers on trade negotiation matters and a green light on the economic stimulation plan that has been dragging along for the past two months. The president could not take any risk of ruffling the republicans. Furthermore, Argentina is not a priority for the Americans now, confides a member of the IMF. Also, the risk that its bankruptcy will cause a chain reaction and lead to a grave crisis among emerging nations is, according to economists, not very likely or at most limited. Brazil has had time to lessen its dependence on trade links with Argentina. The other emerging nations are calling on foreign capital less since the Asian crisis and a sharp ebb in investments would not have the dramatic impact that it had in 1997-1998. Will Argentina be declared bankrupt on 19 December? The fate of 30 million Argentines depends on this. Regardless of what happens, the current extremely perilous situation is another setback for the IMF. It has been following Argentina's national accounting with a magnifying glass for the past ten years and it has shown it is incapable of guaranteeing the country's financial equilibrium just as most of the countries that submit to its demands. 
	
	
 
	
	
	


	
[Passage omitted -- on the Bush administration's budget for controlling climate changes; the attitudes of Australia, Canada, the European Union, and China; and the terms of the Kyoto Protocol] 
	
	
 The US President preferred a more realistic attitude, because it is hard to believe that it will be possible to fully eliminate pollutant gas emissions in one decade. What is also realistic is the idea that it will be easier to persuade the main polluting agents to take measures by providing incentives to them, rather than by constraint. No matter how cynical this may appear, the US administration is mainly concerned with getting out of the recession and with relaunching the economy, rather than with the greenhouse effect.	


	
The buffer zones that Ariel Sharon intends to establish are an explicit admission that Israelis can no longer live by the sword, that the occupation is not working, and Israeli reprisals are not meeting with success. Thinking of building a Great Wall of China in the Middle East, replete with elaborate fences and tunnels, is conceding that Israel is not safe, not a normal country. It cannot integrate itself into the region, it is an alien seedling and, thus, it is better to isolate and fortify itself as a lowly outpost. 
	
	
 A total disengagement from the Palestinians, complete with walls and razor wire, might provide Israel its long-desired security and might free it of the burden of trying to control seven million desperate Palestinians, any number of whom are willing to die in order to end the occupation. But separation will not mean an end to the occupation and no Israeli government can provide security as long as it persists in its efforts to maintain its presence beyond Israel's pre-1967 borders and to retain territories inhabited by millions of Palestinians. By now, it should be clear to everyone that retaliating against every act of Palestinian resistance with Israel's superior ability to punish Palestinians does not provide the security that Israelis are demanding. 
	
	
 The only way out of the current spiral of violence is for Israel to limit itself to areas within which it can assume responsibility for its citizens' security. This means a return to Israel's pre-1967 borders. 
	
	
 Practically speaking, a buffer zone will be near impossible to erect. A physical border between Israel and a new Palestinian state will be twisted and distorted to accommodate Jewish settlers in the West Bank and Gaza. Unilateral separation without a negotiated agreement could be realized - only if Israel is willing to uproot around 100 settlements. Sharon says flatly he will not withdraw from a single settlement. He thinks that every settlement is important and is determined that Israelis must retain as much land in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as possible. 
	
	
 Then there is the eventual goal of the peace process: the coexistence of Israel with the state of Palestine. But Israel has not once deigned to propose that the Palestinians live with the Israelis as full citizens in the same sate. Israel does not want the Palestinians to be part of the same country, or have one of their own. 
	
	
 By a margin of 2-1, Israelis think Sharon has no plan to end the violence and the buffer idea buttresses this long-standing view. Sharon has not brought the Israeli public security. With grim determination, he has destroyed the peace process and the Oslo agreements. And now he doggedly continues to demolish and prevent any hope of a road to peaceful coexistence. Israelis do not wonder any longer how to get along with Palestinians but how to avoid the need for it. Sharon has ensured that Israelis are rapidly absorbing the lesson that no place in Israel can be considered safe. 
	
	
 A wall and miles of fences is not the best of solutions. Does anybody believe that the intifada can end as long as Israel persists in the occupation of the territories and Palestinians are willing to die in large numbers to deny Israel that privilege? 
	
	
	


	
BEIJING, March 6 (AFP) -- China's foreign minister on Wednesday pledged to expand "constructive and cooperative" relations with the United States, in a notably conciliatory performance at his annual get-together with the media. 
	
	
 "We are ready to work together with the US side to narrow differences, expand common ground, increase exchanges and promote cooperation in order to further push forward the constructive and cooperative ties," Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan told journalists. 
	
	
 In a press conference on the sidelines of the current full session of parliament -- his annual opportunity to present China's foreign policy objectives to the outside world -- Tang largely steered clear of subjects over which Beijing and Washington disagree. 
	
	
 Even when the perennially divisive issue of Taiwan was raised by reporters, he offered only mild and routine criticism of US policy towards the island. 
	
	
 China had always "firmly opposed" the US Taiwan Affairs Act, which mandates by law the US defense of Taiwan and forms the basis for US arms sales to the island, he said. 
	
	
 Tang called on Washington to uphold the so-called "one China policy" -- the centrepiece of Beijing's dealings with Taiwan which categorises the island is an inalienable part of mainland territory -- but failed to specifically condemn Washington's arms sales to Taipei. 
	
	
 However he stressed that Taiwan remained the crucial issue between the two. 
	
	
 "I wish to emphasize that the Taiwan question remains the most sensitive and most important issue at the core of the Sino-US relationship," he said. 
	
	
 Sino-US ties have greatly improved since Beijing backed the US fight against global terrorism and its bombing campaign of terrorist targets in Afghanistan following the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States. 
	
	
 The tone of Tang's press conference was markedly different to that of last year's equivalent event, during which he roundly criticised United States arms sales to Taiwan. 
	
	
 Sino-US relations took a more serious dip a month afterwards during a crisis over the collision between a US surveillance plane and a Chinese fighter jet over the South China Sea. 
	
	
 Tang conceded there had been "twists and turns" following US President George W. Bush's accession to the US presidency in early last year, but said the relationship had improved with Bush's visits to China in October and last month. 
	
	
 "President Jiang and President Bush held an important meeting in Shanghai in October where they agreed that both countries would work together to build a constructive and cooperative relationship. 
	
	
 "This is a very important consensus," Tang said. 
	
	
 When asked whether the anti-terror alliance meant good relations between the country were based purely on expediency, Tang disagreed, saying cooperation "was long-term". 
	
	
 China will seek to improve the relationship still further during visits by President Jiang Zemin and Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington later this year. 
	
	
 Tang further announced that Liu Jieyi, the director general of the Chinese Foreign Ministry section in charge of arms control, was in Washington for talks on weapons proliferation and issues concerning the global security. 
	
	
 US accusations of China's alleged proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have long been countered by Beijing with loud opposition to US weapon sales to Taiwan. 
	
	
 Overall, despite a "grim and complicated" post September 11 international order, China still maintained that "peace, stability and development" remained the main themes characterizing the world environment, Tang said. 
	
	
	


	
That Angela Merkel, the chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Union, wanted the job had long been an open secret, although no one but she knew how far she was prepared to go. But it was the uncertainty with which her rival, Bavarian Premier Edmund Stoiber of the Christian Social Union, the CDU's Bavarian sister party, also shrouded himself that made the question of who would lead the Union parties into the 22 September elections as chancellor candidate against incumbent Gerhard Schroeder, so exciting. Mr. Stoiber has come a long way from his refusal to sacrifice himself for the CDU in an election that once looked impossible to win, through his statement that he would under no circumstances run against the wishes of Ms. Merkel and her party, to his willingness to take her on in a divisive vote if necessary. 
	
	
 Mr. Stoiber carefully tread the path to the candidacy, spurred on by many and reined in by others. But he let slip the opportunities to turn back, because the forces that drive him -- his desire to affect change, his sense of duty to his peers and his ambition -- would not permit him to pass up the biggest chance of his political life. Mr. Stoiber seized it once the CDU made clear that it preferred him to its own chairwoman. That has always been the basic premise for a CSU chairman to accept the candidacy on behalf of the bigger sister party. It does not, of course, guarantee success at the polls -- or even solidarity in the campaign. 
	
	
 Certainly, Mr. Stoiber has done everything in his power to spare himself the fate of his mentor, Franz Josef Strauss. Rather than force himself on the CDU, he waited to be called. Having marginalized their own leader, the CDU grandees cannot afford to leave the chancellor candidate in the lurch as well. The most cogent argument in Mr. Stoiber's favor is that he will be running as a hopeful and not as the ticket of last resort. The CDU chose him because it believes in victory. The government is floundering, more seriously than anyone would have thought six months ago. The Union parties could not have wished for a better situation from which to launch their campaign. If anyone in their ranks can turn this to their advantage, it is Mr. Stoiber. 
	
	
 Nonetheless, he will be made to realize that he cannot command the CDU, that his power base lies in Munich and not in Berlin, and that the invitation of kingmakers to accept the crown comes at a cost. Nor will Mr. Stoiber have any illusions of what it means to lead an election campaign, although he can be confident in the knowledge that what is at stake is not Edmund Stoiber, nor the Union, but Germany as a whole.	


	
AMMAN -- The unemployment rate among the country's 48,000 engineers has dropped by 1.5 per cent since last year, a senior official at the Jordan Engineers Association (JEA) said on Thursday. 
	
	
 The rate last year was around 8.5 per cent, but in the first two months of 2002 it dropped to 7 per cent, said JEA President Azzam Hneidi. The total of unemployed engineers currently stands at 3,360, he said. 
	
	
 The association last year provided 867 unemployed engineers with job opportunities in several public and private institutions, thereby contributing to the decline, according to Hneidi. 
	
	
 The association will continue contacting the government and private institutions to supply them with engineers, he added. 
	
	
 Both the JEA and the Ministry of Housing and Public Works last year trained 759 new engineering graduates over the course of one year to prepare them for job opportunities, he said. 
	
	
 One of the JEA's obligations stipulated in its bylaws is to provide training for its members. This training takes the form of a full-time internship lasting from six months to one year, during which graduates are placed in professional settings to gain firsthand experience in the workplace. 
	
	
 "The aim is to give the engineers a real chance to practise what they studied in theory at university," said Hneidi. 
	
	
 Engineers specialised in the electricity field, for example, are hired to work in an electric company for eight hours per day. 
	
	
 "The trainee is paid between JD120-150 per month, and the association defrays JD30-50 of that monthly salary," said the JEA official. 
	
	
 The association annually allocates JD100,000 for training graduates. This year it plans to increase the number of trainees to 1,000 graduates, which will require more funds. 
	
	
 "The association is willing to cover it," Hneidi said. 
	
	
 As the engineering sector has more graduates than job openings, the association's representative offices in the Gulf states look to bring engineers from Jordan to work in the Gulf, said Hneidi. 
	
	
 Unemployment prevails mainly among chemical, mechanical and civil engineering graduates, he said, adding that engineers specialised in electrical, computer and architectural engineering have no problem finding jobs. 
	
	
 The number of students in Jordanian public and private universities' engineering departments is around 6,000, excluding those in agricultural engineering. Around 2,000 new engineers enter the job market on an annual basis. 
	
	
 Currently, many engineering students in universities prefer to specialise in the electrical or computer disciplines because the demand for them is higher. 
	
	
	


	
Regular British troops will not be sent to fight the Taliban, Robin Cook signalled tonight. 
	
	
 His remarks came as the militia began talks on surrendering its spiritual home of Kandahar after Northern Alliance troops finally entered Kunduz. 
	
	
 SAS [Special Air Service] soldiers and their American counterparts are fighting alongside the Alliance as they have swept across large swathes Afghanistan. 
	
	
 But Commons Leader Mr Cook said: "If you look back over the past month there has been no situation in which we have put British troops into the ground civil war and I don't myself imagine that's going to change." 
	
	
 British troops remained on 48 hour stand-by but the situation was "better than anybody could have hoped for", according to Mr Cook. 
	
	
 "We will continue obviously to keep the situation under review, but frankly, I think we should welcome the fact that their presence has not been needed in Afghanistan. This is not a reverse, it's actually an advance," he added. 
	
	
 News of the Kandahar negotiations came after the Taliban control crumbled in their final northern stronghold of Kunduz following mass surrender. 
	
	
 The city's top Taliban commander was among thousands of Afghan and foreign troops who gave themselves up after days of talks interspersed with fighting. 
	
	
 However, night fell before the Alliance could secure the city, increasing the danger of militants fighting back. 
	
	
 Hours after the vanguard entered from the west, a tank column halted its advance from the east, fearing hostile fire. 
	
	
 The surrender took days to hammer out, primarily because hard core Taliban and foreign troops from Usama Bin Ladin's al-Qa'ida terror network did not want to give up. 
	
	
 The fall of Kunduz leaves Kandahar as the Taliban's last major stronghold following the rapid collapse of their regime across the majority of the country. 
	
	
 Hundreds of foreign fighters captured in the siege of the northern city were killed in a prison riot at a fortress outside Mazar-e-Sharif, the Northern Alliance said. 
	
	
 But that did not stop Taliban commanders discussing the surrender of Kandahar, following calls from 70 Afghan tribal leaders for them to avert bloodshed. 
	
	
 "There are some talks and negotiations going on there (in Kandahar) with the Taliban to surrender themselves," Gen Mohammed Zaer Azimi said in Herat. 
	
	
 Ruud Lubbers, the United Nations Commissioner for Refugees, said Afghanistan was not yet secure for aid agencies to operate in and "not enough" food had been taken into the country. 
	
	
 "It is not at all a secure environment," he told the programme. 
	
	
 "So although our international staff went back to Kabul and hope to go back to the other places ... one cannot say it is safe in the country and secure enough. 
	
	
 "So there is quite a job to be done in creating a secure environment for humanitarian assistance." 
	
	
 His concerns echoed those voiced by leading charity Oxfam, which said instability across the country was hampering aid efforts. 
	
	
 But the Prime Minister's official spokesman today said Tony Blair was pleased with the progress that had been made on the military, diplomatic and humanitarian fronts. 
	
	
 "The situation obviously remains fluid from hour to hour but it seems to be going in the right direction," the spokesman said. 
	
	
 The campaign so far showed Alliance military success was the best way of getting food in, he said. 
	
	
 He again stressed that Britain would need to see evidence before it became involved in military action in other countries. 
	
	
 "In terms of the war on terrorism we have always said this is a multi-faceted campaign but equally we have also said any future military action would have to be based on evidence," he said. 
	
	
 "This campaign is not over. We are still in the middle of fighting the war in Afghanistan." 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Taipei, Feb. 18 (CNA) -- Minister of Foreign Affairs Eugene Chien said Monday he does not expect any surprise developments to come from U.S. President George W. Bush's visit to mainland China later this week. 
	
	
 "The United States has more than once briefed us on the main purposes of Bush's Asia tour before his departure and repeatedly guaranteed that Taiwan's interests won't be sacrificed during Bush's trip," Chien told a news conference. 
	
	
 Bush arrived in Japan Sunday at the start of a three-nation Asia tour that will also take him to South Korea and mainland China. 
	
	
 Noting that this is Bush's first visit to the Asia-Pacific area following his attendance at the annual informal leadership meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum last October, Chien said the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) is keeping close tabs on the current trip. 
	
	
 According to Chien, the government has set up a special task force to facilitate communications with the United States and analyze relevant developments. "The task force is working around the clock to monitor Bush's visit to Japan, south Korea and mainland China," he added. 
	
	
 The minister further said that since the communication channels between Taiwan and the United States have been operating smoothly, MOFA can fully grasp any possible developments. "We hope that people will keep calm. They need not be nervous," he said. 
	
	
 Chien said he appreciated statements made by Bush prior to his departure that Taiwan is a friend of the United States and that the Taiwan Strait issue should be resolved peacefully. 
	
	
 Chien said the Republic of China government hopes that the United States will continue to play the role of "promoter, stabilizer and balancer" in cross-strait relations. 
	
	
 In his view, Chien went on, the main purpose of Bush's current Asia visit is to promote world peace and security. "Bush hopes to take advantage of his trip to forge a consensus with U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific area on his administration's fight against terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
	
	
 He said Bush is expected to discuss bilateral security cooperation, Japan's economic reforms and financial aid to Afghanistan in his talks with Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi. 
	
	
 During his trip to Seoul, Chien said, Bush is expected to exchange views with South Korean leaders on arms procurement and policies toward North Korea. 
	
	
 "As for the topics to be touched upon in Bush's talks with Beijing leaders, the agenda will include mainland China's agricultural market opening, religious freedom and human rights condition, missile shield and Taiwan Strait issues," Chien noted.	


	
BSE case reported in southwestern France 
	
	
 Text of report by French news agency AFP 
	
	
 Auch, 2 March (AFP): A fourth case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) was recently confirmed in the Gers department [of southwestern France], the Gers prefecture announced on Saturday [2 March]. The animal concerned was a milk cow and the farm has not been named. In accordance with the new regulations which came into force last week, all the animals in the herd will be slaughtered except for those born after 1 January 2002, the prefecture said. The first two BSE cases in Gers were detected last August, and a third was confirmed at the end of January in a 6-year-old milk cow. 
	
	
	


	
On Sunday [25 November], the Belgian Army will begin relieving its troops that are stationed in Kosovo within the scope of the NATO-led peace force (KFOR [Kosovo Force]). The replacement force will also include a Luxembourg contingent -- as has been the case since 1999 -- as well as a Romanian company including 84 troops. The army announced this on Friday [23 November]. The relief operation, which will involve some 900 troops, will begin on Saturday and last until 12 December, the Armed Forces' press service pointed out. 
	
	
	


	
NIZHNY NOVGOROD. March 22 (Interfax-AVN) -A habitual criminal who escaped from a convoy and started a shootout in the Perm region overnight to Friday has surrendered to the police, a spokesman for the main police department in the Volga federal district told Interfax-Military News Agency on Friday. Sergei Serdyuk, 32, was convicted several times on charges of theft, assault amd car hijacking. He was detained in March 2002 once again. While being transported to the police department of the Komi- Perm autonomous region on Thursday, Serdyuk escaped from a convoy of the Kochevo police department. The incident happened on the Perm-Kudymkar motorway 6km from the Karagai village of the Perm region at about midnight. Materials contained in the criminal case brought against Serdyuk say that the man disarmed the convoy, got hold of four PM pistols, wounded the head of the criminal investigation subdepartment of the Kochevo police department, who commanded the convoy, captured the driver of the police vehicle and left in the direction of Perm. The car was stopped near the Krasnokamsk village, the shootout started, and Serdyuk escaped in a forest. No casualties were registered among policemen. Two PM pistols were found at the site. Serdyuk surrendered to the police at 8:20 a.m. Moscow time (0520 GMT) on Friday. Arms were confiscated from him, the spokesman said. @ 2002 Interfax-Military News Agency, All rights reserved. News and other data on this web site are provided for information purposes only, and are not intended for republication or redistribution. Republication or redistribution of Interfax content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Interfax-Military News Agency. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Taipei, Feb. 21 (CNA) -- Relations between Taiwan and the United States have increasingly become "harmonious and close" since U. S. President George W. Bush took office and Bush's current mainland visit is unlikely to affect the two-way ties, a presidential aide said Thursday. 
	
	
 Secretary-General of the Presidential Office Chen Shih-meng said the U. S. has repeatedly assured Taiwan that Bush will stick to his commitments to help protect Taiwan and he will not do or say anything that could damage Taiwan's interests while visiting mainland China. 
	
	
 According to Chen, the main purpose of Bush's mainland trip is to thank Beijing for its cooperation in the U.S.-led anti-terrorist war following last year's Sept. 11 terror attacks on Washington and New York. 
	
	
 Meanwhile, Chang Shiao-yue, spokeswoman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, reiterated that the United States had briefed Taiwan on Bush's mainland visit before his departure and made it clear that the trip would not hurt Taiwan's interests. She added the ministry has set up a task force to monitor developments and deal with all contingencies.	


	
BEIJING, Feb 21 (AFP) - US President George W. Bush and Chinese President Jiang Zemin on Thursday carefully played down their countries' often glaring differences over Taiwan during the US leader's visit to Beijing. 
	
	
 Both scrupulously avoided combative talk on the issue, which has been a consistent source of tension between the countries for decades. 
	
	
 Bush, who arrived in China Thursday morning, said the United States hoped for a "peaceful settlement" to tensions between China and Taiwan and stressed Washington's policy on the island had not altered. 
	
	
 "The position of my government has not changed over the years," Bush reassured his hosts. 
	
	
 "We believe in the peaceful settlement of this issue." 
	
	
 Bush reiterated his support for the Taiwan Relations Act, under which the United States is committed to providing the island with the means to defend itself. 
	
	
 But he also had a thinly veiled message for leaders in Taipei, saying "we will urge there be no provocation". 
	
	
 Bush's comments appeared designed to reassure Beijing that Washington has not shifted from its long-standing policy of avoiding making any explicit commitment to come to Taiwan's defence should China invade. 
	
	
 The tone contrasted sharply with the mood last year when Bush signed off on the biggest US arms sales to Taiwan in a decade. The sales angered Beijing and fuelled concern that Washington's tougher stance might encourage Taiwan to declare formal independence. 
	
	
 Bush's comments also pleased Taiwan's government, which pronounced itself satisfied and thanked Bush for his backing. 
	
	
 "The press conference showed the result of the discussions entirely match our forecast," said Taiwanese Foreign Minister Eugene Chien. 
	
	
 He voiced his gratitude to Bush for "having honored his commitment" made to Taipei before the Asian trip, which also took Bush to Japan and South Korea. 
	
	
 Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman had said ahead of Bush's departure for Asia that Washington had assured Taipei its interests would not be harmed. 
	
	
 However some officials voiced concern that China could secure concessions on Taiwan in return for supporting Bush on issues such as anti-terrorism and prevention of nuclear arms proliferation. 
	
	
 In his comments at the press conference, Jiang also avoided areas of contention over Taiwan, which split from the mainland in 1949 after the communist victory in China's civil war. 
	
	
 "To properly handle the Taiwan question is vital to the stability and growth of China-US relations," Jiang said. 
	
	
 "In my meeting with President Bush, I have elaborated on the Chinese government's basic position of peaceful reunification and 'one country two systems' for the solution of the Taiwan question." 
	
	
 "One country two systems" is Beijing's proposal to reunify with Taiwan while allowing the island some autonomy in a similar arrangement to that which saw Hong Kong return to Chinese rule in 1997. 
	
	
 Taiwan on Thursday also called on China to reopen rapprochement talks. 
	
	
 Premier Yu Shyi-kun asked Chinese leaders to set aside differences with the island and engage in talks in the aftermath of both their entries to the World Trade Organisation (WTO). 
	
	
 Beijing has said it will not reopen talks with Taipei unless the Taiwanese government embraces its definition of "one China", under which Taiwan is considered part of its territory. 
	
	
 This is rejected by Taiwan's pro-independence President Chen Shui-bian. Dialogue across the Taiwan Straits has been frozen since he took office in May 1999. 
	
	
	


	
BETHANY - The number of illegal immigrants in Swaziland seems to be increasing. Last month members of the Umbutfo Swaziland Defence Force [USDF] found 594 illegal aliens in the country. 
	
	
 The USDF found 43 Somalians inside two kombis in Maphiveni and 23 others were found without travel documents at Matsamo border and were handed over to the Horo police. At least 507 illegal Mozambicans have been found, as well as eight South Africans, two Tanzanians, and one Burundian. 
	
	
 According to the army spokesman, Corporal Nhlanhla Dlamini, the key areas where most of the immigrants were found was Lomahasha, Mhlumeni and Sitsatsaweni. "We have discovered that there is a certain family around Lomahasha, which is suspected of assisting illegal immigrants with shelter and transport. The army would like to request whoever is engaged in this criminal activity, to stop," he said. 
	
	
 Last month, 53 cattle were also stolen around the country, of which 17 were spotted inside Mozambique driven by three men armed with rifles thought to be AK47s. The Mozambican soldiers have promised to act quickly. 
	
	
 The USDF also found four stolen cars in different places in the country. These include a Nissan Skyline in Mafutseni, a Mercedes Benz, A Toyota and an Isuzu 2.5 diesel at Nkalashane. 
	
	
	


	
TAIPEI, Feb 21 (AFP) - Taiwan Foreign Minister Eugene Chien on Thursday hailed US President George W. Bush for not trading away the island's interests to Beijing. 
	
	
 Chien said the closed-door meeting between Bush and his Chinese counterpart Jiang Zemin suggested there remained differences to be tackled. 
	
	
 As to the Taiwan issue, Chien said: "The press conference showed the result of the discussions entirely match our forecast..." 
	
	
 Chien voiced his gratitude to Bush for "having honored his commitment" he pledged to Taipei before his Asian trip, which also took him to Japan and South Korea. 
	
	
 Taiwan's foreign ministry spokeswoman had said ahead of Bush's departure for Asia that Washington had assured Taipei its interests would not be harmed. 
	
	
 Taiwan's foreign ministry has set up an ad hoc group to monitor the trip around-the-clock and report to President Chen Shui-bian. Taipei's de facto embassy in Washington has been given a similar task. 
	
	
 Chien said he also hoped "Washington will continue to enhance its ties with Taipei while seeking to mend fences with Beijing." 
	
	
 Bush, who arrived in China Thursday morning, said the United States hoped for a "peaceful settlement" to tensions between China and Taiwan and stressed Washington's policy on the island had not altered. 
	
	
 "The position of my government has not changed over the years," Bush said. 
	
	
 "We believe in the peaceful settlement of this issue." 
	
	
 Bush reiterated his support for the Taiwan Relations Act, under which the United States is committed to providing the island with the means to defend itself. 
	
	
 Beijing has repeatedly threatened to take Taiwan by force should the island declare formal independence. 
	
	
 In a speech to the Japanese Diet (parliament) on Tuesday, Bush said the US would continue to support its allies in the Asia Pacific region. 
	
	
 "We will continue to show American power and purpose in support of the Philippines ... Australia ... and Thailand ... America will remember our commitments to the people on Taiwan," he said, without elaborating. 
	
	
 
	
	
	


	
US President Bush, after visiting Japan and South Korea, will follow with a visit to China. Whether Bush will, like Clinton, damage Taiwan's interests is receiving the deep concern of all quarters. The protection of Taiwan's interests under the US-Japan alliance structure is fairly strong. Before President Bush visits China, Japanese naval strategy expert Kawamura Sumihiko and missile expert Sato Mamoru were exclusively interviewed by a reporter of this newspaper. They reiterated the importance of Taiwan's strategic position and at the same time put forward their views with regard to the situation in the Taiwan Strait. 
	
	
 Kawamura: Japan and Taiwan are both exporting nations. Stable ocean traffic is an absolute necessity. Last year, approximately 5.1 billion tons of goods passed through the world's oceans, about one third of which passed through the sea areas of southern China. Half of this one third was transported to Japan through the sea areas near Taiwan. The traffic on Taiwan's seas is extremely important to Japan. If Taiwan becomes a part of China, all of Taiwan's sea areas will be threatened. China is currently in the process of actively expanding as a maritime nation. Its purpose is to ensure resources and the lives of a population of 1.5 billion people. However, China is not a nation that is able to abide by international rules, and for this reason, there will inevitably be conflicts on the ocean. Under these circumstances, Taiwan and Japan both must recognize clearly the important role of the navy. 
	
	
 Question: What is your appraisal of Taiwan's navy? 
	
	
 Kawamura: Frankly speaking, Taiwan's navy is worrisome. Anti-submarine combat strength is extremely low, and in particular there are many old style naval aircraft that, compared to Japan, are possibly 30 to 40 years behind. Torpedo strength is also insufficient. The Navy's problems are very large. For example, there is only one submarine attached to each naval base. It can only be said that this is nothing more than an embellishment and fundamentally cannot accomplish anything. Taiwan should make an all out effort to augment naval combat strength. In past Taiwan-US arms sale negotiations, the PC-3 early warning aircraft and the MH53 helicopter that Taiwan has made requests to purchase are entirely suitable to Taiwan's needs. The PC-3's intelligence exchange system is extremely important and is not inferior to the Aegis destroyer. 
	
	
 Question: Will the United States sell Aegis destroyers to Taiwan? 
	
	
 Kawamura: One of the reasons that the United States has all along not provided Aegis destroyers to Taiwan is that in the past the United States considered Taiwan's armed forces to be the armed forces of the Nationalist Party, not the armed forces of the nation. Nationalization of the armed forces after Lee Teng-hui (Li Teng-hui) and the loyal attitude of the armed forces after Chen Shui-bian (Ch'en Shui-pien) came into office have already gradually allowed the United States to feel at ease. Although Japan and the United States haven't recognized it, in reality, the United States, Japan and Taiwan currently are already situated in a kind of virtual alliance. I reckon that at the last stage, the United States will provide the Aegis destroyer to Taiwan. It is not possible that the Republican Party will get along with China, Taiwan can again wait for a little while. 
	
	
 Question: Where is China's true threat to Taiwan 
	
	
 Sato: China's threat to Taiwan is the use of the three methods of missiles, amphibious landing, and submarine blockades. The most likely method is to use missiles to threaten Taiwan psychologically. 
	
	
 Question: How should Taiwan respond to China's missile threat? 
	
	
 Sato: I gave a speech on this issue in Taiwan. Taiwan has some people who very obviously purposely play up China's use of force to scare Taiwan. In 1996, the Chinese People's Liberation Army indeed fired four missiles near Taiwan, but this was a kind of propaganda war. Before the United States attacked Afghanistan, it first explained the reasons to every nation of the world, and China using missiles to attack Taiwan is certainly not simple. If China only uses common warheads, at most, it would only make a few holes in Taiwan. If warheads with biological weapons are used, China has no means to justify this to international public opinion. During the Second World War, Germany fired 7,000 V1 and V2 missiles at England and England did not surrender. Recently, old Yugoslavia fired 3,000 missiles at Kosovo and Kosovo also did not surrender. This is an issue of will. 
	
	
 Question: What is the significance for Taiwan of the United States and Japan jointly researching TMD theater missile defense system technology? 
	
	
 Sato: After the 9-11 incident, the United States will be even keener on developing TMD. Taiwan is also very important to the United States, especially Taiwan's strategic position. The possibility of the TMD anti-missile system covering Taiwan in the future is very great. Currently, Taiwan's Patriot missiles are effective against guided missiles. I reckon that the probability of war occurring between China and Taiwan is smaller than small. Not using peaceful methods to resolve the Taiwan issue won't do, and I reckon that the US-Japan summit talks will discuss the issue of the two shores. 
	
	
 However, Taiwan announcing independence to the outside world is a variable. Taiwan announcing independence is not itself a problem, but because Taiwan announcing independence would bring unrest and a domino effect would occur with regard to Tibet and Xinjiang, this is China's greatest fear. There would be no difference between Taiwan announcing independence to the outside world and the current situation. Taiwan has no need to announce independence, and there won't be any problem if only the name "Taiwan" is used. 
	
	
 
	
	
 Attachments: TYSP 19 feb 02-1.pdf	


	
ANKARA, Jan 15 (A.A) - Uzbek general Rashid Dostum will pay a visit to Turkey. 
	
	
 Afghanistan`s Embassy in Ankara said Dostum, the Defense Minister of temporary government set up in Afghanistan, will come to Ankara to visit his family. 
	
	
 Dostum is expected to leave for Turkey following the inauguration ceremony of Uzbek Consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif. 
	
	
 Dostum is expected to reach Ankara in the coming days. 
	
	
 It is not definite whether or not Uzbek general will have an official program in Ankara. 
	
	
	


	
Text of report in English by Russian news agency Interfax 
	
	
 Moscow, 9 November: Russia's Defence Ministry has denied Taleban assertions that Russian officers are serving in the Northern Alliance. "Formations of the anti-Taleban coalition do not include officers of the Russian armed forces," a high-ranking military official told Interfax on Friday. "Russia has provided only military-technical assistance to the Northern Alliance and continues to do so. Russian officers were not dispatched to Afghanistan either as unit leaders or as instructors," the official added. 
	
	
	


	

	
	
 One in four children in the KwaZulu-Natal capital of Pietermaritzburg has been orphaned by Aids, and the number is set to rocket in the next 10 years. 
	
	
 A study by Dr Neil McKerrow, chief paediatrician at Pietermaritzburg's Metropolitan Hospitals Complex, shows that 50 000 Aids orphans live in the city. The number rises to 100 000 if surrounding areas in the Midlands are included. 
	
	
 McKerrow estimates that the number of orphans in the Midlands will top 250 000 by 2010. 
	
	
 His figures refer to children under 16 who have lost their mothers, in line with a World Health Organisation definition. According to Statistics SA, the city has 193 000 children in that age group out of a total population of 573 000. 
	
	
 Although there are care centres and orphanages in Pietermaritzburg, McKerrow's study found that extended families and the community were willing to take in these children. 
	
	
 Six years ago McKerrow and a colleague at the Edendale Hospital, Annelise Verbeek, pioneered a study entitled Models of Care for Children in Distress, a term they coined for abandoned, displaced and orphaned children in the region. 
	
	
 They found that 6% of children in Pietermaritzburg were Aids orphans. Six years later, the number has risen to 25%. 
	
	
 At an informal meeting three weeks ago, the city council was told that, according to estimates from teachers, there were now as many as 100 000 Aids orphans in the city, but city health officials say these numbers appear to be too high. 
	
	
 McKerrow's estimates are based on household counts coupled with mathematical models used by the WHO. 
	
	
 KwaZulu-Natal has the highest rate of HIV infection in SA, with 36% of the population infected. McKerrow estimates there are 4.6 million orphans countrywide. 
	
	
 Yvonne Spain, the co-ordinator of Children In Distress, a network of more than 50 organisations and people, said communities were absorbing the children, "but the fact of the matter is that, as multiple deaths occur, that safety net will fall apart". 
	
	
 The director of the provincial Aids Action Unit, Dr Sandile Buthelezi, admitted the city faced "quite a problem" and suggested this week the figures might even be higher than McKerrow's. 
	
	
 He said: "The number of orphans is not a static thing. . . Every day an orphan is being created and I know the problem is enormous in the province." 
	
	
 Buthelezi said the provincial health department was working closely with the welfare community and the private sector to secure funding for bodies working with Aids orphans.	


	
JOHANNESBURG Feb 12 Sapa ALLEGED ISRAELI MAFIA MEMBER TO STAND TRIAL IN AUGUST 
	
	
 Alleged Israeli mafia member Lior Saad will stand trial in August for the murder of the estranged husband of a close friend of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. 
	
	
 The Johannesburg Magistrate's Court ruled on Tuesday Saad would stand trial from August 12 to 30 for the murder of diamond merchant Shai Avissar, who disappeared in 1999. 
	
	
 Avissar's body was found in a shallow grave on a smallholding near Pretoria on October 17, 1999. 
	
	
 The diamond merchant was married to Hazel Crane, a close friend of Madikizela-Mandela. 
	
	
 Saad will remain in custody until the trial. 
	
	
 Source : Sapa /nn/wj Date : 12 Feb 2002 14:15	


	
The federal and local authorities are currently preparing the ratification of the Kyoto international protocol on limiting the emission of greenhouse gases. Within the framework of that protocol, Belgium must reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 7.5 percent, compared to 1990, in the 2008-2012 period. Following the formal ratification of the Kyoto protocol by all the parliaments of the concerned countries, that protocol will become equivalent to a Belgian law. This implies -- whether or not one agrees with it -- that the Kyoto protocol will become binding for all of this country's inhabitants and institutions. 
	
	
 We readily accept that there are good intentions on the part of both the government and this country's various sectors to comply with the Kyoto standards. However, no broad social debate has yet been conducted on the crucial question: How much should each sector or target group contribute to achieving the Belgian Kyoto standard? Because this debate has failed to take place, it is understandable that all sectors (ranging from processing and manufacturing industrial sector, the electricity sector, the tertiary sector, and the transport sector to the residential sector) are currently doing their utmost to make their own future efforts as small (yet acceptable) as possible. 
	
	
 That is strikingly illustrated by Belgian large-scale industry, which has made great efforts over the past 10 years, over which energy intensity (energy use per unit of final product) has improved considerably. But a very considerable increase in production is expected in Belgium over the next 10 years, so that (even with very efficient processes) overall carbon dioxide emissions will certainly rise. Large-scale industry wishes to counter the expected rise with so-called benchmark covenants. 
	
	
 In a nutshell, benchmarking means that companies compare their energy efficiency with that of similar plants abroad. In these covenants, the companies pledge to rank among the world leaders in energy efficiency by 2012. In return for their commitment, they are exempted from additional (Flemish) emission restrictions, taxes on emissions, or negotiable emission rights. 
	
	
 Belgian industry is advocating benchmark covenants because it is afraid that an absolute limit would weaken considerably its competitive position with respect to similar companies in regions where the Kyoto protocol is not ratified. According to industry, relocation, with the resulting job losses, would be the only solution. However, this disregards the fact that arguments other than purely financial ones also play a part in the location decisions of companies in our region (favorable location near seaports, availability of know-how, well-educated personnel, stable political climate...). 
	
	
 Those covenants contain insufficient guarantees in themselves to achieve the Belgian/Flemish reduction targets in an economically efficient manner. 
	
	
 To begin with, the principle of benchmarking itself raises questions. If it were to emerge from the comparison with domestic and foreign companies that certain companies do not rank among the world leaders in energy efficiency, they would have to present a plan to achieve the highest energy efficiency on time (by 2012). But benchmarking is not sufficient from the viewpoint of economic efficiency (realizing the Kyoto restrictions on emissions at the lowest possible costs for the whole of society). 
	
	
 A cost-efficient division of efforts implies that each sector must limit its emissions to the point at which the additional costs for one extra ton of reduction are the same in all sectors. As a result, the costs of additional restrictions on emissions in industry must be compared with those of other sectors, such as the transport sector, households, the service sector, and so forth. Benchmarking guarantees only that companies belong to the top of their class, but says nothing about that class's performance as compared with the whole universe. 
	
	
 Second, benchmark covenants do not guarantee that the external climate costs of energy use (the increased greenhouse effect caused by the burning of fossil fuels) are correctly taken into account in the final products of the sectors concerned. However, taking into account these external climate costs is essential, because the users of energy-intensive goods are confronted in that way with the consequences of their choice of product. In that way, less energy-intensive products enjoy a relative advantage. 
	
	
 Third, questions can be asked about the emission restrictions that would be achieved by the covenants. Companies are urged in the proposed covenants to adopt measures which have an economic cost recovery period of less than five years or have an internal rate of return greater than that of a straight-lined obligation. But it is highly unclear whether these measures will lead to many extra reductions of emissions in comparison with the business as usual scenario without additional policy efforts. 
	
	
 Fourth is the contrast between the benchmark covenants' relative emissions standards and the Belgian Government's absolute restrictions on emissions within the framework of the Kyoto protocol. Since industry does not wish to let itself be pinned down on an absolute emissions ceiling, while the government feels itself committed to an absolute ceiling, industry is foisting the necessary efforts onto other sectors in society through the benchmark covenants. If industrial greenhouse gas emissions increase considerably over the next 10 years, that will have to be offset by a commensurate reduction of emissions in the transport sector, services, households, and so forth. 
	
	
 Thus the benchmark covenants could have very significant consequences for other sectors and target groups in our society, whereas the latter are not involved in the deliberations on those covenants. Hence a broad social debate on who should contribute how much to realizing the Kyoto standards is urgently necessary. 
	
	
 Despite these shortcomings, we believe that a role is reserved for the instrument of benchmark covenants. Thus the benchmark covenants could be reconciled with the European Commission's recent proposals for launching a unified market for European carbon dioxide emissions by 2005. This European proposal assumes absolute restrictions on emissions (companies obtain rights to emit a certain number of tons of carbon dioxide) and is hence irreconcilable at first sight with the Flemish benchmark covenants. However, the benchmark covenants could be opportune here for settling the initial allocation of emission rights. Companies could be allocated rights on the basis of an energy efficiency standard, on the condition that they are prepared to accept an absolute emissions ceiling. However, if they wish to emit more (because, for instance, their output is increasing considerably), they can do so provided that they purchase the necessary emission rights from companies which have a surplus of rights. 
	
	
 The great advantage of negotiable emission rights in that the system can lead to a cost-efficient division of effort among all sectors and target groups. By using the benchmark covenants to allocate emission rights initially, the good points of covenants are retained and their drawbacks are eliminated. 
	
	
 In any case, it is high time that a social debate be organized on the division of effort to achieve the Kyoto aims. Only a division that takes account of every sector's possibilities and is borne by the various target groups guarantees that Belgium will achieve its Kyoto aims without draconian measures having to be adopted at the eleventh hour. 
	
	
	


	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Tokyo, Jan. 17 Kyodo -- Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, who just completed a whirlwind tour of five Southeast Asian nations, said Thursday he longed for more leisurely trips -- but added that may have to wait until he leaves his post. 
	
	
 "I would like to visit various countries at a more leisurely pace -- meet with the people of the land and travel not only to the capital but also to rural cities for sightseeing," the premier told a gathering in Tokyo. 
	
	
 "But when I think of my duties as prime minister, I can't visit one country and not go to the other, or stay in one country for three days and stay in the other for only a day. If I am to visit several countries in a limited time, it is always one or two days at best," he said. 
	
	
 "Of course, if I step down as prime minister, I can visit one country for a week each," he said. 
	
	
 But the premier also said that although short, he thinks his visits to the countries are still meaningful. 
	
	
 "There is a saying, seeing is believing. Even if it's only for a day or two, it is significant to visit a country and exchange views with the people of the country in person," he said. 
	
	
 Koizumi made a weeklong tour of the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore earlier in the month. He stayed for less than a day in most countries.	


	
Beijing, March 21 (XINHUA) -- China urged the United States on Thursday to abide by the "one China policy", warning that any act to trample upon the Sino-U.S. Joint Communiques could result in a "very unfavorable" impact on relations between the two countries. 
	
	
 The question of Taiwan, which relates to China's sovereignty and territorial integrity, is an essential and most important issue and is at the heart of Sino-U.S. relations, said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue. 
	
	
 China hopes the United States will not do anything against the spirit of the three Sino-U.S. Joint Communiques, she said. 
	
	
 Zhang made the remarks at a news briefing in response to a question about the Taiwan official Tang Yiau-min's recent visit to the United States. 
	
	
 Zhang replied that Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing has put forward China's stand on the matter while making strong representations to the U.S. government with the hope that the United States treats the matter seriousness it deserves. 
	
	
 She said during the U.S. President Bush's working visit to China last month, state leaders of both countries agreed that Chinese President Jiang Zemin and Vice President Hu Jintao would visit the United States this year. 
	
	
 However, within one month of Bush's visit, the U.S. has already done several things which are against the spirit of the three Sino-U.S. Joint Communiques. 
	
	
 Zhu said the U.S. side should stop interfering in China's internal affairs by interfering in the Taiwan issue. 
	
	
	


	
KHARTOUM, Feb 13 (AFP) - Sudanese rebels have released a group of fishermen they had held for the last six months after charging that their boat belonged to the Sudanese government army, their employer said Wednesday. 
	
	
 Salmah Trading and Investment Company said its fishermen, who were captured last August while fishing in the Fangak area in south Sudan's Upper Nile region, were set free Tuesday by the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA). 
	
	
 "The release was due to tremendous efforts by the citizens who benefit from the company's services," the company said in a statement received by AFP, without elaborating further. The statement did not indicate the exact number of the freed fishermen but an official of the company said they were originally 11 in number. 
	
	
 The Sudanese government had always denied that the boat belonged to the army. The rebels released the boat shortly after the fishermen were captured. 
	
	
 The private trading company said in its statement that it would continue with its services "for the benefit of the people of southern Sudan." 
	
	
 Sudan's civil war has raged since 1983 when the SPLA took up arms in a bid to end domination of the mainly Christian and animist south by the Islamic government in the north.	


	
Mugabe must be confronted with constitution issue 
	
	
 Lovemore Madhuku 3/21/02 1:40:54 AM (GMT +2) 
	
	
 IT will be a monumental tragedy for Zimbabwe and the future of the democratisation process if we fail to draw proper and useful lessons from the debacle surrounding the just-concluded presidential election. I must warn at the outset that there are two groups of persons whose analyses must be handled with caution. The first group is the media. The second group is that of "winning" and "losing" politicians. 
	
	
 These two groups dominated the pre-election period with all sorts of analyses and predictions whose value is yet to be ascertained. 
	
	
 Yet I must declare my interests at the outset. From those very first days sometime in early 1997 when, alongside colleagues like Tendai Biti, Welshman Ncube, Brian Kagoro, Priscilla Misihairabwi, Everjoice Win and Tawanda Mutasa, I participated in formulating the concept of the National Constitutional Assembly (NCA), it has been clear to me that the sole purpose of the current Zimbabwean constitution is to preserve and protect the rule of ZANU PF. 
	
	
 My view then, and indeed those of my colleagues, was that a democratic environment in which free and fair elections are the norm, and in which citizens enjoy real freedoms, could only be created if a new, democratic and people-driven constitution were put in place. In terms of that view, it is almost impossible to change the government through an election conducted in terms of the current constitution. 
	
	
 This is the view I still hold so strongly that I must confess it may cloud my assessment of the just-concluded presidential elections. 
	
	
 There is little doubt that the presidential election was neither free nor fair. An election which fails to meet the standard of being "free and fair" produces an illegitimate outcome. 
	
	
 This much must be regarded as admitting of no doubt. However, this says nothing about the way forward. This election was not stolen on March 9 and 10 2002, nor is the outcome illegitimate merely on the allegations of rigging arising from the events of the polling days. 
	
	
 The lesson to be learnt from this poll is that until Zimbabwe has a genuinely democratic constitution enshrining universally recognised norms and institutions for the holding of an election, a free and fair ballot will remain a mirage. 
	
	
 Politicians who in the run-up to the election peddled theories about how the "will" of the people would prevail notwithstanding the labyrinth of constitutional provisions loaded against a free and fair election must now admit that they were wrong. Most of the problems faced in this election have their roots in the defective nature of our constitutional framework. I now proceed to illustrate this truth. 
	
	
 First, the voter registration process was not transparent and was conducted in such a way as to favour the ruling party. The main reason for this lack of transparency is that in terms of the current constitution and laws, voter registration is conducted by officials appointed by, and answerable to, the President. 
	
	
 In other countries, this process is handled by an Independent Electoral Commission which is an impartial body and whose independence is guaranteed by the constitution. In our case, the so-called "supplementary voters' roll" was nothing but a list of names of ZANU PF supporters compiled under dubious circumstances but it was given legal validity by President Robert Mugabe acting is terms of the current constitution and laws. 
	
	
 Secondly, the designation of polling stations, as is now well known, was specifically done in a way that favoured ZANU PF by granting ridiculously few polling stations in urban areas. This was done by officials appointed by, and answerable to, Mugabe. In other countries, this is done by an Independent Electoral Commission, which is constitutionally enjoined to act impartially. 
	
	
 Third, it is alleged that some key election officials such as presiding officers were Central Intelligence Organisation operatives. In other countries, there is no scope for such madness. An Independent Electoral Commission appoints professional election officials. 
	
	
 Fourth, there were the so-called "no-go areas" in Mashonaland Central, West, East and some parts of the Midlands. Parliament also passed the Public Order and Security Act which the police deliberately misinterpreted to suppress the opposition. 
	
	
 Our constitution does not specifically provide for political rights such as free and equal campaigning platforms for competing political parties. If such rights had been enshrined, it would have given the opposition the right to approach the courts for orders directing the police to facilitate free campaigning in the so-called no-go areas. 
	
	
 Fifth, equal access to the public media is not guaranteed by our constitution. This enabled the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation to abuse its position by broadcasting ZANU PF propaganda only. 
	
	
 Finally, and more significantly, the President enjoys enormous powers under the current constitution which he used to further his electoral chances. It was the President who directed that there be tripartite elections in Harare. And in doing this, he overrode court orders to the contrary. 
	
	
 The tripartite elections contributed to what ultimately became a "low" turnout in Harare. 
	
	
 After the Supreme Court nullified the General Laws Amendment Act, the President used his powers to reinstate most of its provisions through a statutory instrument. Thus, it was the President who banned postal voting by all Zimbabweans outside their constituencies except members of the army and the police. The latter are alleged to have voted for Mugabe. 
	
	
 The ban on monitoring of elections by civic society was also reinstated. There were other countless examples of the President's use of the powers he enjoys under the current constitution to mould the electoral process in his favour. 
	
	
 The conclusion to be reached from this whole picture is that under the current constitutional and legal framework for the holding of presidential elections, it is almost impossible to vote out an incumbent President. It was naive for the Movement for Democratic Change to believe that the people's anger against Mugabe was, in itself, sufficient to carry the day in an election, whatever the circumstances. 
	
	
 The issue is not about Mugabe. If Mugabe were to announce his retirement before the expiry of his six-year term and ZANU PF were to field any of his less illustrious colleagues as a presidential candidate, without a fundamental change to the rules, Zimbabweans will learn an even more bitter lesson: ZANU PF will "steal" that election again. 
	
	
 We do not need to wait for that scenario before we embrace the need to fight for a new constitution. We have learnt our lesson and it will be irresponsible to seek to dispute this clear fact. 
	
	
 This brings us to the way forward. Two points must be made. 
	
	
 First, there has been no spontaneous uprising against Mugabe notwithstanding the widespread disbelief that greeted his victory among many voters, particularly those in urban areas. ZANU PF had anticipated such an uprising, hence the massive intimidatory show of force that was evident in the deployment of security forces in every part of the country during and after the announcement of the election results. 
	
	
 Secondly, key African countries have accepted Mugabe's victory while almost the entire Western world has "rejected" the election results. These two points are crucial in any discussion of the way forward. 
	
	
 Various options have been discussed, but the better way forward is to confront the Mugabe regime with the constitutional question. Constitutional reform is at the heart of any new democratic discourse in Zimbabwe. 
	
	
 Mugabe must be forced to yield to a new process of constitutional reform leading to a new constitution. There must be mass action for a new constitution. 
	
	
 Mass action for a new constitution places Mugabe in a difficult situation. He cannot be heard to defend the current constitution, which has been roundly condemned by all. He has used the current constitution to stay in power. 
	
	
 Even the African observers who endorsed Mugabe's re-election have also criticised the constitutional framework governing elections in Zimbabwe. 
	
	
 More fundamentally, the struggle for a new constitution is a question of principle, not personalities. It is a legitimate struggle which Mugabe cannot dismiss as a Western imperialist ploy because its demands are clear and unambiguous: a more democratic system of government, a more democratic framework for conducting elections, an expanded Bill of Rights and so on. 
	
	
 Mugabe has no moral excuse for shooting people merely demanding a new constitution. 
	
	
 The masses required for such a struggle to succeed need not be substantial. This struggle does not need a spontaneous uprising. A core of determined and committed Zimbabweans is sufficient for this purpose. 
	
	
 It is critical that a new constitution be in place as soon as possible so that any future election is held in a transparent and credible manner. 
	
	
 A presidential election is not necessarily six years away. Under the current constitution, the President has no powers to designate a successor, should he decide to retire. A fresh election must be held within 90 days. 
	
	
 The same situation arises if the President dies while in office. Never again should Zimbabweans go into an election under the current constitution. 
	
	
 A criticism which has been levelled against this way forward is that mass action aimed at confronting Mugabe with a demand for a new constitution translates into recognising him when in fact his government is illegitimate. This is useless sophistry. 
	
	
 Mugabe is a political fact. In legal jargon, to those who do not recognise his presidency, he remains the de facto President. It is him who must be confronted with such a demand as constitutional reform. 
	
	
 The NCA last December completed a draft constitution which Mugabe, through Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa, refused to receive. That draft must be forced on Mugabe and the NCA hopes that Zimbabweans will join in this noble cause to put in place a secure framework for good governance in Zimbabwe. 
	
	
 - Lovemore Madhuku is task force chairperson of the National Constitutional Assembly and a lecturer in law at the University of Zimbabwe.	


	
The Argentine TV station Todo Noticias ["All News"] reported yesterday that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso on Saturday night telephoned Cordoba Province Governor Jose Manuel de la Sota, of the Justicialist Party (PJ) -- who once served as ambassador to Brazil -- to voice his concern over incidents in the country. 
	
	
 "Cardoso told De la Sota that the images of the protests at the Plaza de Mayo show a country on the verge of a civil war," one of the channel's journalists commented. 
	
	
 According to the reporter, the Brazilian president apparently advised De la Sota to move forward the elections, initially slated for March 2002. But neither Itamaraty nor the Planalto Palace confirmed the president's phone call to the governor of Cordoba. 
	
	
 Legislators Request Action from the Brazilian Government 
	
	
 Concern has spread to Brazilian legislators. Violent attacks at the Argentine legislature sounded alarm bells in the Brazilian political arena, to the point that senators of the official and opposition parties defended more concrete support from the Brazilian Government for Argentina. Deputy Jose Genoino (Workers Party -- Sao Paulo) said that the wave of looting threatens Argentine democracy. He asked that Brazil promote meetings in the South American continent, or serve as intermediary in negotiations with international institutions. 
	
	
 "This is an unpredictable, anarchical situation. We don't know where it will go, against whom. It is dangerous! In addition to Argentina there are other countries in crisis, such as Colombia and Venezuela. We have a very risky scenario. Any step backward for democracy on the continent would be a disaster. Brazil cannot stand by with its hands folded just watching all of this," Genoino affirmed. 
	
	
 PSDB [Brazilian Social Democracy Party] President Jose Anibal (Sao Paulo) said that Cardoso has already placed himself at the disposal of the Argentine Government to talk to international financial institutions. He noted, "Brazil should adopt an open posture with relation to Argentina, which is experiencing a tragedy." 
	
	
 For Jose Agripino Maia, PFL [Liberal Front Party] leader in the Senate, although Brazil has detached itself from Argentina, it should not disregard the message of the crises that is devastating the neighboring country. 
	
	
 "The political warning must be heeded. Either one pays attention to the will of the people or what happened will happen." Maia commented. 
	
	
 Senator Heloisa Helena (Workers Party -- Alagoas) said that Latin American countries should always join together to speak with international economic institutions, in order to maintain autonomy in their economies: "Now we see what happens when one country abdicates its financial autonomy. I hope that this can alert the Brazilian Government to revise its relationship with the IMF." 
	
	
 Analysts: Lack of Alternative for Power 
	
	
 Political scientists agree: Argentina lacks a political force that can stand up to Peronism and Radicalism. This is viewed as the main impediment to the establishment of political order in the country. USP [University of Sao Paulo] professor Emir Sader believes that Peronists will remain in power after the elections, slowly growing weaker, allowing room for the emergence of new leadership. 
	
	
 "The degree of pauperization will be brutal. Everything depends on how long it takes for Peronism to burn out and new leadership to emerge," Sader said. 
	
	
 For the political scientist, Argentina cannot wait for assistance from the American Government. Latin America is no longer important because the focus now is on global security and no longer on the international economic order. 
	
	
 Sader affirmed, "The new policy of (US President George W.) Bush is to permit decay. The concern now is security. All eyes are on Pakistan, China, and Russia." 
	
	
	


	
MOSCOW. Feb 21 (Interfax) - Russia's Interior Ministry is looking into a report about Russian entrepreneur Viktor Bout's involvement in arms supplies to the al-Qaeda terrorist organization. 
	
	
 "Deputy Interior Minister Nikolai Bobrovsky ordered a detailed probe and verification of this information," Interior Ministry spokesman Yuri Shuvalov told Interfax on Thursday.	


	
HONG KONG, March 26 (AFP) - China has disallowed a routine port call in Hong Kong for an American naval vessel, a spokeswoman for the US consulate said Tuesday. 
	
	
 "The Chinese government denied a requested visit by the USS Curtis Wilbur, a destroyer, to visit Hong Kong from April 5 to 9," she said adding, "this would have been a routine port call." 
	
	
 "No reason was given for the disapproval," the spokeswoman added. 
	
	
 The bar on the USS Curtis Wilbur with some 346 crew is seen as reflecting Beijing's anger over Washington's decision to allow Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-ming to visit Florida for a military conference this month. 
	
	
 Beijing has twice summoned the US ambassador for dressings down over the issue, while a state-controlled newspaper reported last week that China was preparing to cancel naval exchanges with the United States in retaliation. 
	
	
 The last time such a request was turned down was in May last year following the collision of a US spy plane with a Chinese fighter jet in international air space over the South China Sea on April 1, 2001. 
	
	
 However, US naval visits to Hong Kong resumed in July. 
	
	
 There were two other similar episodes of permission being denied before that since the 1997 handover of the former British colony to China. 
	
	
 One of them was after the Chinese embassy in Yugoslavia was bombed, killing three people, in the US-led NATO air campaign three years ago. 
	
	
 When Hong Kong was under British rule, the US navy made up to 65 port calls a year and Beijing had agreed the stopovers would continue after the territory returned to Chinese sovereignty. 
	
	
	


	
STATE VISIT: The US president is getting good reviews from political experts for refusing to restate the `three nos' and declining to endorse peaceful reunification 
	
	
 As US President George W. Bush wrapped up his six-day visit to Asia yesterday, analysts gave their thumbs up to his determination to voice his firm support for Taiwan despite pressure from China to do otherwise. 
	
	
 "We felt gratified and relieved after watching Bush stick to his principles on the issue of Taiwan. He did not make any concessions, even after his meetings with the Chinese leaders in Beijing," said Cheng Tuan-yao, research fellow at the Institute of International Relations in National Chengchi University. 
	
	
 While past trips to China by US presidents have produced agreements or statements that have damaged Taiwan's interests, Bush's visit only enhanced the nation's confidence in his administration, Cheng said. 
	
	
 "Bush has made the first correct step by spurning his predecessor's appeasement of China. Notably, he didn't restate the so-called `three nos' policy," said DPP legislator Parris Chang (Chang Hsu-ch'eng) of Bush's remarks on Taiwan during his two-day trip to Beijing that concluded yesterday afternoon. 
	
	
 Former US president Bill Clinton agitated Taiwan when he gave the so-called "three nos" speech during his visit to China in 1998. The "three nos" include no support for an independent Taiwan; no recognition of "two Chinas'' or one China and a separate Taiwan; and no support for Taiwan's entry into international organizations that require members to be states. 
	
	
 "Bush has been very forthcoming in stating the US commitment to defend Taiwan against the possible use of force by China," said Chang, a specialist in international relations. 
	
	
 Bush reitered his desire for a peaceful settlement of the Taiwan issue several times during his trip to Beijing. The US president also declined to endorse China's version of a "peaceful unification" between Taiwan and China, reflecting the longstanding US position on cross-strait relations, analysts said. 
	
	
 "Of course he would not use the term of `peaceful reunification' ... because the American position is that relations between Taiwan and China should be open-ended," Chang said. 
	
	
 "The three communiques have not committed the US to peaceful reunification," he added. 
	
	
 China's Vice Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing, in a speech in Washington earlier this month, urged the US to support "peaceful unification." 
	
	
 But Bush's refusal to respond to a similar push by a student yesterday during the question-and-answer session of his talk at Tsinghua University showed that the US president stuck to the US existing policy, according to analysts. 
	
	
 Cheng pointed out what he saw as the implications of Bush's remarks on missile defense. 
	
	
 "Bush said any missile-defense system was to protect friends and allies of the US from countries with massive destructive capabilities. Although he did not mention Taiwan directly, the implication of this remark seemed to be that Taiwan was not to be excluded," Cheng said. 
	
	
 Bush described Taiwan as a "good friend" of the US during his weekly radio address to the US public that aired last week within hours of his departure for Asia. 
	
	
 Bush's mention several times of the Taiwan Relations Act, the 1979 US law that pledged that the US would supply Taiwan with the defensive weapons it needed to fend off a Chinese attack, also reflected his firm support for Taiwan, analysts said. 
	
	
 China has tried to highlight and accentuate the Taiwan issue during Bush's trip to China, but the US agenda rested instead on anti-terrorism and China's proliferation of arms sale to countries like Iran and Pakistan, Chang argued. 
	
	
 But as Bush concluded his trip to Asia yesterday, it was clear that China failed to elicit from him a statement on the "three nos" and on opposition to Taiwanese independence, Chang said. 
	
	
 The US' rising concerns over China's military expansion and its appreciation for Taipei's support for the US-led war against terrorism drove Bush to stand firm in his support for Taiwan, the DPP legislator said. 
	
	
 The Pentagon's quadrennial defense review issued last September -- which highlighted the rising Chinese threat -- and the recent testimony by the CIA director to the US Senate on China's military modernization were indicative of the Bush administration's perception of China as a growing threat to US national security. 
	
	
 "These two reports seemed to indicate that the Bush administration took China's rising military threat more seriously than did the Clinton's administration. And therefore, the US is much more forthcoming in voicing its support for Taiwan," Chang said. 
	
	
 Fresh from his trip to Washington, where US government officials highlighted Taiwan's contribution to the war against terrorism, Chang said, "Even as a small country, we stood with the US at that critical moment, and the US appreciated that and has reciprocated what we've done."	


	
China has launched three unmanned spacecraft consecutively and exhibited to the world the capsules recovered. People have seen the true features of these space capsules. What exactly then is a manned spaceship? 
	
	
 It is learned that the manned spaceship will have a liftoff weight of about eight tonnes, and is less than 10 meters long and 3.5 meters in diameter. It can carry two to three astronauts and continue to cruise in space for more than 20 days. 
	
	
 The spaceship has been designed with comprehensive reference to the Russian spaceship Soyuz. The spaceship is composed of three cylindrical capsules, with the orbiter capsule fitted on the forefront. Its interior is equipped with corresponding facilities for space observation and space drug and microgravity tests. The return capsule, connected to the orbiter capsule, is the cockpit of the astronauts and the only capsule that will reenter the atmosphere for landing. Three reclining seats will be installed in the capsule for astronauts. Instrument panel, control shaft, and optical telescope will be installed below the seats. At the rear of the spaceship is the propulsion capsule to provide thrust to the spaceship in orbital control and return to earth. In accordance with the plan, China's manned spaceship will conduct a series of scientific tests and earth observation after it is launched into space. 
	
	
 Space technology will not only be used for civilian, but also for military purposes, and there is no exception for China. It is speculated that the spaceship will almost certainly be equipped with facilities relating to military observation and attack on enemy satellites. Therefore, the manned spaceflight will enable China to have preliminary space combat capability. 
	
	
 According to the experience of the United States and Russia, one of the greatest problems of manned spaceship is inadequate power supply. The solar energy batteries usually cannot meet the needs of numerous equipment on a spaceship. However, it is understood that China has successfully resolved this problem to provide sufficient power supply for its spaceship. After completing the orbital flight, the spaceship will adjust itself to the return position by following ground command and ignite the engine to change to the orbit for returning to the earth. Before gliding into the atmosphere, the orbiter and propulsion capsules will be discarded. 
	
	
 By referring to the designs of the Russia spaceship Soyuz, it is very possible that China will apply the lift control technology in its manned spaceship. This technology will enable the spaceship to limit its mobility in the atmosphere. In the altitude of about several thousands of meters, the return capsule will eject the parachutes to further reduce the speed. It is reported that in the past China's recovery site for returning satellites was in the mountains of Sichuan Province. 
	
	
 To facilitate recovery and rescue in future manned spaceflight, the recovery site will be located in sparsely populated grassland or the wilderness. Judging from the selection of recovery sites for the two previous flights, the site for recovering the manned spaceship may be situated in the grassland of Inner Mongolia. 
	
	
 The next step after the land recovery, China may change to recovering the manned spaceship on the sea. 
	
	
 An informed source has said that it can be seen that the designs for China's manned spaceflight have taken into consideration future modifications. For the next flight, the top of the spaceship's orbiter capsule may be installed with a docking module for docking tests between two spaceships. The concerned person said that this is a prelude to China's space station development plan.	


	
Lugano, 8 Jan -- Spanish-Israeli businessman Felipe Turover has denounced the Swiss in front of the European Human Rights Court in Strasbourg for having put his life in danger in its case against [Secretary of the Russian-Belarus Union] Pavel Borodin, former Kremlin senior aid accused of money laundering, according to a communique Tuesday from his lawyer Niccolo Salvioni. 
	
	
 According to the communique, received at the Swiss news agency ATS, the 37-year-old M. Turover --considered by the Swiss courts as a key witness -- had asked the Swiss Government and the Swiss Public Ministry that he be put under protection, believing himself threatened by the Russian Mafia because of leaks by Swiss court officials. 
	
	
 Pavel Borodin, the former property manager of the Kremlin, is suspected of having laundered some $25 million in secret commissions which came from two Swiss companies headquartered in the Tessin (southeast) region -- Mercata, and Mabetex -- in exchange for being awarded the contracts for the renovation of the Kremlin and the Russian presidential aircraft in 1995 and 1996. 
	
	
 At the end of June 2001, the Swiss Public Ministry rejected a complaint from Turover against a former Ministry official, Carla Del Ponte -- today a lawyer with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) -- in which Turover accused her of putting his life in danger during this case; in November the rejection was upheld by the Federal Tribunal, which is Switzerland's highest court. 
	
	
 Turover accused Mme. Del Ponte of having furnished -- in 1999 when she headed the Swiss Public Ministry -- confidential information to the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera which made numerous revelations about the Mabetex-Borodin affair, including the existence of credit cards in the name of the Yeltsin family. The newspaper presented Turover as a key informer in this affair and the Spanish-Israeli businessman affirmed that these leaks had put his life in danger. 
	
	
 Today, Turover is accusing the Swiss authorities of having violated on several occasions the European Convention on Human Rights. The communique from his lawyer affirms that the Swiss authorities, the Federal Tribunal, and the Swiss Public Ministry "have given proof of illegality and political persecution." 
	
	
 Mabetex, a construction company, is suspected of having landed public contracts for renovating the Kremlin and other Russian official buildings by offering bribes worth a dozen million dollars in 1995 and 1996 to close associates of former Russian president Boris Yeltsin, including to Borodin. 
	
	
 At the request of the Geneva court, Borodin was arrested in the United States January 17, 2001. He agreed to be extradited to Switzerland April 7th. After six days in preventive detention, he was released on bail for $3 million. 
	
	
	


	
A cargo ship intercepted in the Channel after a tip-off that it might be carrying terrorist materials was today given the all clear, police said. 
	
	
 The 450ft long vessel Nisha, carrying 26,000 tonnes [metric tons] of raw sugar, was stopped on Friday morning [21 December] amid fears it could be transporting noxious, hazardous or dangerous substances. 
	
	
 But after a detailed examination of the ship, which is currently moored off the Isle of Wight, nothing suspicious was found, police said. 
	
	
 Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's specialist operations, said: "New information, combined with the relentless efforts of scientific experts, our detailed knowledge of the ship and its movements, and very careful examination of the vessel over the last three days leads us to be completely satisfied that the Nisha is not a suspicious vessel and does not pose a danger." 
	
	
 The Nisha was halted by anti-terrorist police, the Royal Navy and Customs and Excise officials after a tip-off that it contained "terrorist material" and the Royal Navy frigate HMS Sutherland intercepted her in international waters, about 30 miles south of Beachy Head. 
	
	
 The MV Nisha is operated by the Great Eastern Shipping Company, based in Bombay, India. 
	
	
 It had recently stopped in the east African country of Djibouti, a neighbour of Somalia, which has been linked to Usama Bin Ladin's al Qa'ida terror network. 
	
	
 The ship had sailed from Mauritius and was carrying a cargo of sugar to the Tate &amp;amp; Lyle refinery on the Thames at Silvertown in east London, according to the company. 
	
	
 Police had earlier indicated they expected the search to take a number of weeks, because of the vessel's size and design, but experts completed the job today. 
	
	
 Anti-terrorist officers said they were also satisfied that the ship's crew and owners had not committed any offence. 
	
	
 Mr Veness said the ship was now in a position to continue its journey, but completion of the voyage was still subject to consultation with all interested parties. 
	
	
 He added: "We have not detected any signs of interference and we do not believe that the seals of the holds have been interfered with. 
	
	
 "We had anticipated that detailed examination of the ship might take rather longer. This was to ensure that there was no chance of risk to the public. 
	
	
 "The cargo ship Nisha was intercepted and boarded as part of an intelligence-led operation. 
	
	
 "This was the right and proper course of action to take. Thankfully, the ship has been proved not to pose a danger to the public." 
	
	
 Mr Veness praised the crew and ship's owners for their co-operation and said: "We remain vigilant and are totally committed to ensuring the safety of the public. 
	
	
 "We would take similar action in the future if there was a potential risk to the public." 
	
	
 The Nisha's cargo of raw sugar is owned by the Mauritius Sugar Syndicate, which had chartered the vessel, and the vessel was due to dock in east London yesterday. 
	
	
 The chairman of the British arm of the Great Eastern Shipping Company, Sudhir Mulji, confirmed that the vessel had stopped over at Djibouti before its current journey to drop off American grain as part of a food aid shipment. 
	
	
 The ship then went on to Mauritius to pick up the sugar and left on November 20 to transport it to Britain. 
	
	
 The Great Eastern Shipping Company, which has offices in India, London, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, is a leading Indian shipping and offshore service provider with a fleet of 38 cargo-carrying vessels.	


	
Settlers Have Taken Palestine Hostage 
	
	
 A few days ago the parties in the Palestine conflict found themselves at a crossroads. The escalation of the conflict has now cost over 1,000 people their lives in the space of the past 18 months. 
	
	
 One-third Israelis, two-thirds Palestinians. Circumstances have led to a situation where today the two parties in the conflict find themselves on the road that leads swiftly to the abyss. 
	
	
 On Thursday the Arab Summit in the Lebanese capital of Beirut ended with the adoption of a resolution whose content illustrated how far the Arab world has come since the summit that took place in the Sudanese capital of Khartoum in 1967, shortly after the Israeli victory in the Six Days War. 
	
	
 It was then that the Arab heads of state adopted the three noes: no to negotiations with Israel, no to recognition, no to peace. 
	
	
 On Thursday the summit adopted a resolution that proposed the recognition of the Jewish state, normal relations, and an end to the conflict in return for Israeli withdrawal from the Palestinian territories that Israel has occupied for almost 35 years. 
	
	
 Even the mention of one of the cardinal problems between Israel and the Palestinians - the future of the 3 million Arab refugees - was couched in terms softer than at any time in the past. 
	
	
 The summit's declaration was the best piece of news the Middle East has produced since the Oslo Accords between Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin and Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat were signed on the lawn in front of the White House in Washington in 1993. 
	
	
 The resolution that was put forward by Saudi Arabia was a plea addressed to the Israeli people over the heads of Ariel Sharon's government. No Arab leader was in any doubt that from Sharon's standpoint the resolution was not welcome. 
	
	
 The resolution forced him into a corner. Sharon neither can nor will give up the occupied territories, and so he would be unmasked in the eyes of the whole world as the man standing in the way of peace in the Middle East. 
	
	
 A few hours after the end of the summit chance came to Sharon's rescue. 
	
	
 On Thursday evening a Palestinian suicide bomber attacked a hotel in Natanya where a couple of hundred people had gathered for the traditional Passover meal. Twenty-two people were killed, in addition to the suicide bomber, and 130 were injured. 
	
	
 The bomber was a member of Hamas, the radical Muslim organization. He was known to the Israeli intelligence service. His name figured on a list that Israel had shortly before handed over to the Palestinian security service. 
	
	
 Despite Arafat's promise to take action to neutralize the people on the list, he did not lift a finger. 
	
	
 That same night the Israeli security cabinet met. They decided to take steps to destroy the "Palestinian terrorist structure, arrest its leaders, confiscate arms, and so on." 
	
	
 As a first step Israeli forces were sent into the main Palestinian town, Ramallah, where Arafat has his headquarters and from where the autonomous Palestinian areas are administered. 
	
	
 A few weeks previously Sharon had described Arafat as "irrelevant." Now he declared that Arafat was an "enemy." 
	
	
 He is now a prisoner in his own headquarters. The Palestinian Authority has effectively ceased to function. 
	
	
 Prior to the Natanya massacre Washington had imposed a number of limitations on Sharon. Israeli's antiterrorist operations must not bring the Palestinian Authority to collapse, Israeli forces must not reconquer the territories under the jurisdiction of the authority, and Arafat the man must not be molested. 
	
	
 This time Washington is largely keeping silent. It has not sent the usual appeals to both sides. Quite the reverse: Anonymous U.S. sources say that Washington holds Arafat responsible for the fact that U.S. mediator Anthony Zinni's endeavors to arrange a cease-fire have now foundered. 
	
	
 According to these sources, Sharon had accepted the cease-fire proposal, while Arafat hesitated. Before he had announced his agreement, the Natanya massacre and the Israeli counteraction occurred. 
	
	
 For the time being at least the United States has thus given Sharon a free hand. His problem is that he does not know what to do with it. The action that is currently taking place can at best only throw the terrorist groups off balance for a time. 
	
	
 It cannot solve the Israeli people's security problems, because the root of the terrorism is the Israeli occupation and the Israeli settlements on occupied territory. 
	
	
 The settlers, who number around 220,000 people, have taken the Israeli Government and consequently both the Israeli and Palestinian peoples hostage. 
	
	
 Sharon is a master of escalation. He demonstrated this he as defense minister during the 1982 invasion of Lebanon, which led to Arafat's being forced into exile in Tunis. It is likely that at present Sharon is entertaining similar thoughts and wants to create step by step a situation that will make it possible for him to rid himself of his enemy. 
	
	
 But this is a conflict without winners. Military superiority cannot solve problems that are fundamentally of a political nature. The day the Israeli tanks again leave Ramallah they will have sown the seed for new terrorist actions. 
	
	
 Terrorism thrives in an atmosphere of hate, and the Israeli occupation and the use of military force are creating the fertile soil from which future terrorists will be recruited. 
	
	
	


	
COOLUM, Australia, March 3 (AFP) -- Hopes of a breakthrough in the Commonwealth's bitter deadlock over Zimbabwe rose Sunday as Canada sought to resolve the row after African nations accused Britain of neo-colonialism. 
	
	
 Political violence in the lead up to Zimbabwe's elections next weekend again overshadowed the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) during a second day of crunch talks here. 
	
	
 Britain and Australia have abandoned their push to suspend Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth before the March 9-10 elections in face of increasingly angry opposition led by Nigeria, South Africa and Tanzania. 
	
	
 But Britain still wants sanctions imposed if Commonwealth monitors find evidence of ballot rigging. 
	
	
 They believe the credibility of the Commonwealth will be severely damaged if there is no decisive action. 
	
	
 British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Sunday that if President Robert Mugabe won and it were clear he had won by fraud, then he had no doubt Zimbabwe would be suspended. 
	
	
 "I mean, if there wasn't (suspension) in these circumstances, the Commonwealth would be badly damaged," he warned. 
	
	
 However, Zimbabwe's minister of state for information, Jonathan Mayo, accused Blair of leading a "racist" campaign against its former colony and lashed out at his attacks on Mugabe as "thoroughly disgraceful and unacceptable". 
	
	
 "What we do in Zimbabwe as an independent sovereign state is in accordance with our constitution and our laws," Moyo told reporters. 
	
	
 He also claimed the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was a British sponsored candidate. 
	
	
 Tanzania's President Benjamin Mkapa earlier told journalists in a stout and rare public defence of Mugabe, that even discussing the situation at the Coolum talks threatened the "prerogative and sovereign right of the people of Zimbabwe to make an unfettered choice of their leader and government". 
	
	
 "How does it (the Commonwealth) handle Zimbabwe? Why should it handle Zimbabwe?", Mkapa said, railing at what is being perceived as interference in another country's internal affairs. 
	
	
 But proposals involving a timetable for the imposition of post-election sanctions put forward by Canada's Prime Minister Jean Chretien to the leaders' retreat provided the first sign of a possible breakthrough. 
	
	
 "Everybody has agreed that nothing will be done before the elections", Chretien told reporters here Sunday, adding a communique would be issued Monday. 
	
	
 "The Canadian position was that the elections will occur a week from now and that we have observers there. We have to wait until the elections are over before concluding." 
	
	
 He said the formula proposed by Canada would include "a mechanism for a quick decision" once the results of the elections are known, but would not be drawn further. 
	
	
 It is believed that the proposal calls for a report from observers within two weeks of the elections, and a decision to be made in full on whether to impose sanctions within four weeks. 
	
	
 Mugabe has reportedly told Blair "to keep your pink nose out of our affairs," the Sun-Herald reported here Sunday. 
	
	
 "Go to hell," said Mugabe. "Our people have decided and that is what matters to us. It's not their (Britain's) right or responsibility to decide on our elections." 
	
	
 Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer told Australian television Sunday there was some sympathy for Mugabe's comments among African leaders, whose countries were once part of the British empire. 
	
	
 "There is still that very strong sense that Britain and other countries (are) sometimes being neo-colonialist." 
	
	
 The 54-nation Commonwealth is one of the few organisations to have observers on the ground in Zimbabwe in the run-up to elections in which the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) led by Tsvangirai is challenging Mugabe's 22-year rule. 
	
	
 The issue has threatened to fracture the organisation along rich/poor, black/white lines, despite calls from its head, Queen Elizabeth II, in her opening address Saturday to work to bridge cultural differences. 
	
	
 Several Asian nations have privately said they would also oppose sanctions. 
	
	
 Fijian Foreign Minister Kaliopate Tavola told journalists that as a nation which has suffered Commonwealth sanctions, Fiji believed they were the wrong way to go. 
	
	
 Fiji was only readmitted to the Commonwealth in January after being expelled following the 2000 coup. 
	
	
	


